Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document04238.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 1445/1445
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/1445

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿THE COUNTRY BEYOND

This is an atom: 
A ROMANCE OF THE WILDERNESS

This is an atom: 
BY JAMES OLIVER CURWOOD

This is an atom: 
AUTHOR OF THE VALLEY OF SILENT MEN, THE FLAMING FOREST, ETC.

This is an atom: 
A glass of wine once lost a kingdom, a nail turned the tide of a mighty battle, and a woman's
smile once upon a time destroyed the homes of a million people. Thus have trivial things played
their potent parts in the history of human lives; yet these things Peter did not know.

This is an atom: 
THE COUNTRY BEYOND

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER I

This is an atom: 
Not far from the rugged and storm-whipped north shore of Lake Superior, and south of the Kaministiqua,
yet not as far south as the Rainy River waterway, there lay a paradise lost in the heart of
a wilderness world--and in that paradise "a little corner of hell."

This is an atom: 
That was what the girl had called it once upon a time, when sobbing out the shame and the agony
of it to herself. That was before Peter had come to leaven the drab of her life. But the hell
was still there.

This is an atom: 
One would not have guessed its existence, standing at the bald top of Cragg's Ridge this wonderful
thirtieth day of May. In the whiteness of winter one could look off over a hundred square miles
of freezing forest and swamp and river country, with the gleam of ice-covered lakes here and
there, fringed by their black spruce and cedar and balsam--a country of storm, of deep snows,
and men and women whose blood ran red with the thrill that the hardship and the never-ending
adventure of the wild.

This is an atom: 
But this was spring. And such a spring as had not come to the Canadian north country in many
years. Until three days ago there had been a deluge of warm rains, and since then the sun had
inundated the land with the golden warmth of summer. The last chill was gone from the air,
and the last bit of frozen earth and muck from the deepest and blackest swamps, North, south,
east and west the wilderness world was a glory of bursting life, of springtime mellowing into
summer. Ridge upon ridge of yellows and greens and blacks swept away into the unknown distances
like the billows of a vast sea; and between them lay the valleys and swamps, the lakes and
waterways, glad with the rippling song of running waters, the sweet scents of early flowering
time, and the joyous voice of all mating creatures.

This is an atom: 
Just under Cragg's Ridge lay the paradise, a meadow-like sweep of plain that reached down to
the edge of Clearwater Lake, with clumps of poplars and white birch and darker tapestries of
spruce and balsams dotting it like islets in a sea of verdant green. The flowers were two weeks
ahead of their time and the sweet perfumes of late June, instead of May, rose up out of the
plain, and already there was nesting in the velvety splashes of timber.

This is an atom: 
In the edge of a clump of this timber, flat on his belly, lay Peter. The love of adventure
was in him, and today he had sallied forth on his most desperate enterprise. For the first
time he had gone alone to the edge of Clearwater Lake, half a mile away; boldly he had trotted
up and down the white strip of beach where the girl's footprints still remained in the sand,
and defiantly he had yipped at the shimmering vastness of the water, and at the white gulls
circling near him in quest of dead fish flung ashore. Peter was three months old. Yesterday
he had been a timid pup, shrinking from the bigness and strangeness of everything about him;
but today he had braved the lake trail on his own nerve, and nothing had dared to come near
him in spite of his yipping, so that a great courage and a great desire were born in him.

This is an atom: 
Therefore, in returning, he had paused in the edge of a great clump of balsams and spruce,
and lay flat on his belly, his sharp little eyes leveled yearningly at the black mystery of
its deeper shadows. The bit of forest filled a cup-like depression in the plain, and was possibly
half a rifle-shot distance from end to end--but to Peter it was as vast as life itself. And
something urged him to go in.

This is an atom: 
And as he lay there, desire and indecision struggling for mastery within him, no power could
have told Peter that destinies greater than his own were working through the soul of the dog
that was in him, and that on his decision to go in or not to go in--on the triumph of courage
or cowardice--there rested the fates of lives greater than his own, of men, and women, and
of little children still unborn. A glass of wine once lost a kingdom, a nail turned the tide
of a mighty battle, and a woman's smile once upon a time destroyed the homes of a million people.
Thus have trivial things played their potent parts in the history of human lives, yet these
things Peter did not know--nor that his greatest hour had come.

This is an atom: 
At last he rose from his squatting posture, and stood upon his feet. He was not a beautiful
pup, this Peter Pied-Bot--or Peter Club-foot, as Jolly Roger McKay--who lived over in the big
cedar swamp--had named him when he gave Peter to the girl. He was, in a way, an accident and
a homely one at that. His father was a blue- blooded fighting Airedale who had broken from
his kennel long enough to commit a MESALLIANCE with a huge big footed and peace- loving Mackenzie
hound--and Peter was the result. He wore the fiercely bristling whiskers of his Airedale father
at the age of three months; his ears were flappy and big, his tail was knotted, and his legs
were ungainly and loose, with huge feet at the end of them--so big and heavy that he stumbled
frequently, and fell on his nose. One pitied him at first--and then loved him. For Peter, in
spite of his homeliness, had the two best bloods of all dog creation in his veins. Yet in a
way it was like mixing nitro- glycerin with olive oil, or dynamite and saltpeter with milk
and honey.

This is an atom: 
Peter's heart was thumping rapidly as he took a step toward the deeper shadows. He swallowed
hard, as if to clear a knot out of his scrawny throat. But he had made up his mind. Something
was compelling him, and he would go in. Slowly the gloom engulfed him, and once again the whimsical
spirit of fatalism had chosen a trivial thing to work out its ends in the romance and tragedy
of human lives.

This is an atom: 
Grim shadows began to surround Peter, and his ears shot up, and a scraggly brush stood out
along his spine. But he did not bark, as he had barked along the shore of the lake, and in
the green opens. Twice he looked back to the shimmer of sunshine that was growing more and
more indistinct. As long as he could see this, and knew that his retreat was open, there still
remained a bit of that courage which was swiftly ebbing in the thickening darkness. But the
third time he looked back the light of the sun was utterly gone! For an instant the knot rose
up in his throat and choked him, and his eyes popped, and grew like little balls of fire in
his intense desire to see through the gloom. Even the girl, who was afraid of only one thing
in the world, would have paused where Peter stood, with a little quickening of her heart. For
all the light of the day, it seemed to Peter, had suddenly died out. Over his head the spruce
and cedar and balsam tops grew so thick they were like a canopy of night. Through them the
snow never came in winter, and under them the light of a blazing sun was only a ghostly twilight.

This is an atom: 
And now, as he stood there, his whole soul burning with a desire to see his way out, Peter
began to hear strange sounds. Strangest of all, and most fearsome, was a hissing that came
and went, sometimes very near to him, and always accompanied by a grating noise that curdled
his blood. Twice after that he saw the shadow of the great owl as it swooped over him, and
he flattened himself down, the knot in his throat growing bigger and more choking. And then
he heard the soft and uncanny movement of huge feathered bodies in the thick shroud of boughs
overhead, and slowly and cautiously he wormed himself around, determined to get back to sunshine
and day as quickly as he could. It was not until he had made this movement that the real chill
of horror gripped at his heart. Straight behind him, directly in the path he had traveled,
he saw two little green balls of flame!

This is an atom: 
It was instinct, and not reason or experience, which told Peter there was menace and peril
in these two tiny spots blazing in the gloom. He did not know that his own eyes, popping half
out of his head, were equally terrifying in that pit of silence, nor that from him emanated
a still more terrifying thing--the scent of dog. He trembled on his wobbly legs as the green
eyes stared at him, and his back seemed to break in the middle, so that he sank helplessly
down upon the soft spruce needles, waiting for his doom. In another flash the twin balls of
green fire were gone. In a moment they appeared again, a little farther away. Then a second
time they were gone, and a third time they flashed back at him--so distant they appeared like
needle-points in the darkness. Something stupendous rose up in Peter. It was the soul of his
Airedale father, telling him the other thing was running away! And in the joy of triumph Peter
let out a yelp. In that night-infested place, alive with hiding things, the yelp set loose
weird rustlings in the tangled treetops, strange murmurings of chortling voices, and the nasty
snapping of beaks that held in them the power to rend Peter's skinny body into a hundred bits.
From deeper in the thicket came the sudden crash of a heavy body, and with it the chuckling
notes of a porcupine, and a HOO-HOO-HOO-EE of startled inquiry that at first Peter took for
a human voice. And again he lay shivering close to the foot-deep carpet of needles under him,
while his heart thumped against his ribs, and his whiskers stood out in mortal fear. There
followed a weird and appalling silence, and in that stillness Peter quested vainly for the
sunlight he had lost. And then, indistinctly, but bringing with it a new thrill, he heard another
sound. It was a soft and distant rippling of running water. He knew that sound. It was friendly.
He had played among the rocks and pebbles and sand where it was made. His courage came back,
and he rose up on his legs, and made his way toward it. Something inside him told him to go
quietly, but his feet were big and clumsy, and half a dozen times in the next two minutes he
stumbled on his nose. At last he came to the stream, scarcely wider than a man might have reached
across, rippling and plashing its way through the naked roots of trees. And ahead of him Peter
saw light. He quickened his pace, until at the last he was running when he came out into the
edge of the meadowy plain, with its sweetness of flowers and green grass and song of birds,
and its glory of blue sky and sun.

This is an atom: 
If he had ever been afraid, Peter forgot it now. The choking went out of his throat, his heart
fell back in its place, and the fierce conviction that he had vanquished everything in the
world possessed him. He peered back into the dark cavern of evergreen out of which the streamlet
gurgled, and then trotted straight away from it, growling back his defiance as he ran. At a
safe distance he stopped, and faced about. Nothing was following him, and the importance of
his achievements grew upon him. He began to swell; his fore-legs he planted pugnaciously, he
hollowed his back, and began to bark with all the puppyish ferocity that was in him. And though
he continued to yelp, and pounded the earth with his paws, and tore up the green grass with
his sharp little teeth, nothing dared to come out of the black forest in answer to his challenge!

This is an atom: 
His head was high and his ears cocked jauntily as he trotted up the slope, and for the first
time in his three months of existence he yearned to give battle to something that was alive.
He was a changed Peter, no longer satisfied with the thought of gnawing sticks or stones or
mauling a rabbit skin. At the crest of the slope he stopped, and yelped down, almost determined
to go back to that black patch of forest and chase out everything that was in it. Then he turned
toward Cragg's Ridge, and what he saw seemed slowly to shrink up the pugnaciousness that was
in him, and his stiffened tail drooped until the knotty end of it touched the ground.

This is an atom: 
Three or four hundred yards away, out of the heart of that cup- like paradise which ran back
through a break in the ridge, rose a spiral of white smoke, and with the sight of that smoke
Peter heard also the chopping of axe. It made him shiver, and yet he made his way toward it.
He was not old enough--nor was it in the gentle blood of his Mackenzie mother--to know the
meaning of hate; but something was growing swiftly in Peter's shrewd little head, and he sensed
impending danger whenever he heard the sound of the axe. For always there was associated with
that sound the cat-like, thin-faced man with the red bristle on his upper lip, and the one
eye that never opened but was always closed. And Peter had come to fear this one eyed man more
than he feared any of the ghostly monsters hidden in the black pit of the forest he had braved
that day.

This is an atom: 
But the owls, and the porcupine, and the fiery-eyed fox that had run away from him, had put
into Peter something which was not in him yesterday, and he did not slink on his belly when
he came to the edge of the cup between the broken ridge, but stood up boldly on his crooked
legs and looked ahead of him. At the far edge of the cup, under the western shoulder of the
ridge, was a thick scattering of tall cedars and green poplars and white birch, and in the
shelter of these was a cabin built of logs. A lovelier spot could not have been chosen for
the home of man. The hollow, from where Peter stood, was a velvety carpet of green, thickly
strewn with flowers and ferns, sweet with the scent of violets and wild honey-suckle, and filled
with the song of birds. Through the middle of it purled a tiny creek which disappeared between
the ragged shoulders of rock, and close to this creek stood the cabin, its log walls smothered
under a luxuriant growth of wood-vine. But Peter's quizzical little eyes were not measuring
the beauty of the place, nor were his ears listening to the singing of birds, or the chattering
of a red-squirrel on a stub a few yards away. He was looking beyond the cabin, to a chalk-white
mass of rock that rose like a giant mushroom in the edge of the trees--and he was listening
to the ringing of the axe, and straining his ears to catch the sound of a voice.

This is an atom: 
It was the voice he wanted most of all, and when this did not come he choked back a whimper
in his throat, and went down to the creek, and waded through it, and came up cautiously behind
the cabin, his eyes and ears alert and his loosely jointed legs ready for flight at a sign
of danger. He wanted to set up his sharp yipping signal for the girl, but the menace of the
axe choked back his desire. At the very end of the cabin, where the wood-vine grew thick and
dense, Peter had burrowed himself a hiding-place, and into this he skulked with the quickness
of a rat getting away from its enemies. From this protecting screen he cautiously poked forth
his whiskered face, to make what inventory he could of his chances for supper and a safe home-coming.

This is an atom: 
And as he looked forth his heart gave a sudden jump.

This is an atom: 
It was the girl, and not the man who was using the axe today. At the big wood-pile half a stone's
throw away he saw the shimmer of her brown curls in the sun, and a glimpse of her white face
as it was turned for an instant toward the cabin. In his gladness he would have leaped out,
but the curse of a voice he had learned to dread held him back.

This is an atom: 
A man had come out of the cabin, and close behind the man, a woman. The man was a long, lean,
cadaverous-faced creature, and Peter knew that the devil was in him as he stood there at the
cabin door. His breath, if one had stood close enough to smell it, was heavy with whiskey.
Tobacco juice stained the corners of his mouth, and his one eye gleamed with an animal-like
exultation as he nodded toward the girl with the shining curls

This is an atom: 
"Mooney says he'll pay seven-fifty for her when he gets his tie- money from the Government,
an' he paid me fifty down," he said. "It'll help pay for the brat's board these last ten years--an'
mebby, when it comes to a show-down, I can stick him for a thousand."

This is an atom: 
The woman made no answer. She was, in a way, past answering with a mind of her own. The man,
as he stood there, was wicked and cruel, every line in his ugly face and angular body a line
of sin. The woman was bent, broken, a wreck. In her face there was no sign of a living soul.
Her eyes were dull, her heart burned out, her hands gnarled with toil under the slavedom of
a beast. Yet even Peter, quiet as a mouse where he lay, sensed the difference between them.
He had seen the girl and this woman sobbing in each other's arms. And often he had crawled
to the woman's feet, and occasionally her hand had touched him, and frequently she had given
him things to eat. But it was seldom he heard her voice when the man was near.

This is an atom: 
The man was biting off a chunk of black tobacco. Suddenly he asked,

This is an atom: 
"How old is she, Liz?"

This is an atom: 
And the woman answered in a strange and husky voice.

This is an atom: 
"Seventeen the twelfth day of this month."

This is an atom: 
The man spat.

This is an atom: 
"Mooney ought to pay a thousand. We've had her better'n ten years --an' Mooney's crazy as a
loon to git her. He'll pay!"

This is an atom: 
"Jed--" The woman's voice rose above its hoarseness. "Jed--it ain't right!"

This is an atom: 
The man laughed. He opened his mouth wide, until his yellow fangs gleamed in the sun, and the
girl with the axe paused for a moment in her work, and flung back her head, staring at the
two before the cabin door.

This is an atom: 
"Right?" jeered the man. "Right? That's what you been preachin' me these last ten years 'bout
whiskey-runnin,' but it ain't made me stop sellin' whiskey, has it? An' I guess it ain't a
word that'll come between Mooney and me--not if Mooney gits his thousand." Suddenly he turned
upon her, a hand half raised to strike. "An' if you whisper a word to her--if y' double-cross
me so much as the length of your little finger--I'll break every bone in your body, so help
me God! You understand? You won't say anything to her?"

This is an atom: 
The woman's uneven shoulders drooped lower.

This is an atom: 
"I won't say ennything, Jed. I--promise."

This is an atom: 
The man dropped his uplifted hand with a harsh grunt.

This is an atom: 
"I'll kill y' if you do," he warned.

This is an atom: 
The girl had dropped her axe, and was coming toward them. She was a slim, bird-like creature,
with a poise to her head and an up- tilt to her chin which warned that the man had not yet
beaten her to the level of the woman. She was dressed in a faded calico, frayed at the bottom,
and with the sleeves bobbed off just above the elbows of her slim white arms. Her stockings
were mottled with patches and mends, and her shoes were old, and worn out at the toes.

This is an atom: 
But to Peter, worshipping her from his hiding place, she was the most beautiful thing in the
world. Jolly Roger had said the same thing, and most men--and women, too--would have agreed
that this slip of a girl possessed a beauty which it would take a long time for unhappiness
and torture to crush entirely out of her. Her eyes were as blue as the violets Peter had thrust
his nose among that day. And her hair was a glory, loosed by her exertion from its bondage
of faded ribbon, and falling about her shoulders and nearly to her waist in a mass of curling
brown tresses that at times had made even Jed Hawkins' one eye light of with admiration. And
yet, even in those times, he hated her, and more than once his bony fingers had closed viciously
in that mass of radiant hair, but seldom could he wring a scream of pain from Nada. Even now,
when she could see the light of the devil in his one gleaming eye, it was only her flesh--and
not her soul--that was afraid.

This is an atom: 
But the strain had begun to show its mark. In the blue of her eyes was the look of one who
was never free of haunting visions, her cheeks were pallid, and a little too thin, and the
vivid redness of her lips was not of health and happiness, but a touch of the color which should
have been in her face, and which until now had refused to die.

This is an atom: 
She faced the man, a little out of the reach of his arm.

This is an atom: 
"I told you never again to raise your hand to strike her," she cried in a fierce, suppressed
little voice, her blue eyes flaming loathing and hatred at him. "If you hit her once more--something
is going to happen. If you want to hit anyone, hit me. I kin stand it. But--look at her! You've
broken her shoulder, you've crippled her--an' you oughta die!"

This is an atom: 
The man advanced half a step, his eye ablaze. Deep down in him Peter felt something he had
never felt before. For the first time in his life he had no desire to run away from the man.
Something rose up from his bony little chest, and grew in his throat, until it was a babyish
snarl so low that no human ears could hear it. And in his hiding-place his needle-like fangs
gleamed under snarling lips.

This is an atom: 
But the man did not strike, nor did he reach out to grip his fingers in the silken mass of
Nada's hair. He laughed, as if something was choking him, and turned away with a toss of his arms.

This is an atom: 
"You ain't seein' me hit her any more, are you, Nady?" he said, and disappeared around the
end of the cabin.

This is an atom: 
The girl laid a hand on the woman's arm. Her eyes softened, but she was trembling.

This is an atom: 
"I've told him what'll happen, an' he won't dare hit you any more," she comforted. "If he does,
I'll end him. I will! I'll bring the police. I'll show 'em the places where he hides his whiskey.
I'll--I'll put him in jail, if I die for it!"

This is an atom: 
The woman's bony hands clutched at one of Nada's.

This is an atom: 
"No, no, you mustn't do that," she pleaded. "He was good to me once, a long time ago, Nada.
It ain't Jed that's bad--it's the whiskey. You mustn't tell on him, Nada--you mustn't!"

This is an atom: 
"I've promised you I won't--if he don't hit you any more. He kin shake me by the hair if he
wants to. But if he hits you--"

This is an atom: 
She drew a deep breath, and also passed around the end of the cabin.

This is an atom: 
For a few moments Peter listened. Then he slipped back through the tunnel he had made under
the wood-vine, and saw Nada walking swiftly toward the break in the ridge. He followed, so
quietly that she was through the break, and was picking her way among the tumbled masses of
rock along the farther foot of the ridge, before she discovered his presence. With a glad cry
she caught him up in her arms and hugged him against her breast.

This is an atom: 
"Peter, Peter, where have you been?" she demanded. "I thought something had happened to you,
and I've been huntin' for you, and so has Roger--I mean Mister Jolly Roger."

This is an atom: 
Peter was hugged tighter, and he hung limply until his mistress came to a thick little clump
of dwarf balsams hidden among the rocks. It was their "secret place," and Peter had come to
sense the fact that its mystery was not to be disclosed. Here Nada had made her little bower,
and she sat down now upon a thick rug of balsam boughs, and held Peter out in front of her,
squatted on his haunches. A new light had come into her eyes, and they were shining like stars.
There was a flush in her cheeks, her red lips were parted, and Peter, looking up--and being
just dog--could scarcely measure the beauty of her. But he knew that something had happened,
and he tried hard to understand.

This is an atom: 
"Peter, he was here ag'in today--Mister Roger--Mister Jolly Roger," she cried softly, the pink
in her cheeks growing brighter. "And he told me I was pretty!"

This is an atom: 
She drew a deep breath, and looked out over the rocks to the valley and the black forest beyond.
And her fingers, under Peter's scrawny armpits, tightened until he grunted.

This is an atom: 
"And he asked me if he could touch my hair--mind you he asked me that, Peter!--And when I said
'yes' he just put his hand on it, as if he was afraid, and he said it was beautiful, and that
I must take wonderful care of it!"

This is an atom: 
Peter saw a throbbing in her throat.

This is an atom: 
"Peter--he said he didn't want to do anything wrong to me, that he'd cut off his hand first.
He said that! And then he said--if I didn't think it was wrong--he'd like to kiss me--"

This is an atom: 
She hugged Peter up close to her again.

This is an atom: 
"And--I told him I guessed it wasn't wrong, because I liked him, and nobody else had ever kissed
me, and--Peter--he didn't kiss me! And when he went away he looked so queer--so white-like--and
somethin' inside me has been singing ever since. I don't know what it is, Peter. But it's there!"

This is an atom: 
And then, after a moment.

This is an atom: 
"Peter," she whispered, "I wish Mister Jolly Roger would take us away!"

This is an atom: 
The thought drew a tightening to her lips, and the pucker of a frown between her eyes, and
she sat Peter down beside her and looked over the valley to the black forest, in the heart
of which was Jolly Roger's cabin.

This is an atom: 
"It's funny he don't want anybody to know he's there, ain't it--I mean--isn't it, Peter?" she
mused. "He's livin' in the old shack Indian Tom died in last winter, and I've promised not
to tell. He says it's a great secret, and that only you, and I, and the Missioner over at Sucker
Creek know anything about it. I'd like to go over and clean up the shack for him. I sure would."

This is an atom: 
Peter, beginning to nose among the rocks, did not see the flash of fire that came slowly into
the blue of the girl's eyes. She was looking at her ragged shoes, at the patched stockings,
at the poverty of her faded dress, and her fingers clenched in her lap.

This is an atom: 
"I'd do it--I'd go away--somewhere--and never come back, if it wasn't for her," she breathed.
"She treats me like a witch most of the time, but Jed Hawkins made her that way. I kin remember--"

This is an atom: 
Suddenly she jumped up, and flung back her head defiantly, so that her hair streamed out in
a sun-filled cloud in a gust of wind that came up the valley.

This is an atom: 
"Some day, I'll kill 'im," she cried to the black forest across the plain. "Some day--I will!"

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER II

This is an atom: 
She followed Peter. For a long time the storm had been gathering in her brain, a storm which
she had held back, smothered under her unhappiness, so that only Peter had seen the lightning-flashes
of it. But today the betrayal had forced itself from her lips, and in a hard little voice she
had told Jolly Roger--the stranger who had come into the black forest--how her mother and father
had died of the same plague more than ten years ago, and how Jed Hawkins and his woman had
promised to keep her for three silver fox skins which her father had caught before the sickness
came. That much the woman had confided in her, for she was only six when it happened. And she
had not dared to look at Jolly Roger when she told him of what had passed since then, so she
saw little of the hardening in his face as he listened. But he had blown his nose-- hard. It
was a way with Jolly Roger, and she had not known him long enough to understand what it meant.
And a little later he had asked her if he might touch her hair--and his big hand had lain for
a moment on her head, as gently as a woman's.

This is an atom: 
Like a warm glow in her heart still remained the touch of that hand. It had given her a new
courage, and a new thrill, just as Peter's vanquishment of unknown monsters that day had done
the same for him. Peter was no longer afraid, and the girl was no longer afraid, and together
they went along the slope of the ridge, until they came to a dried-up coulee which was choked
with a wild upheaval of rock. Here Peter suddenly stopped, with his nose to the ground, and
then his legs stiffened, and for the first time the girl heard the babyish growl in his throat.
For a moment she stood very still, and listened, and faintly there came to her a sound, as
if someone was scraping rock against rock. The girl drew in a quick breath; she stood straighter,
and Peter--looking up--saw her eyes flashing, and her lips apart. And then she bent down, and
picked up a jagged stick.

This is an atom: 
"We'll go up, Peter," she whispered. "It's one of his hiding- places!"

This is an atom: 
There was a wonderful thrill in the knowledge that she was no longer afraid, and the same thrill
was in Peter's swiftly beating little heart as he followed her. They went very quietly, the
girl on tip-toe, and Peter making no sound with his soft footpads, so that Jed Hawkins was
still on his knees, with his back toward them, when they came out into a square of pebbles
and sand between two giant masses of rock. Yesterday, or the day before, both Peter and Nada
would have slunk back, for Jed was at his devil's work, and only evil could come to the one
who discovered him at it. He had scooped out a pile of sand from under the edge of the biggest
rock, and was filling half a dozen grimy leather flasks from a jug which he had pulled from
the hole. And then he paused to drink. They could hear the liquor gurgling down his throat.

This is an atom: 
Nada tapped the end of her stick against the rock, and like a shot the man whirled about to
face them. His face turned livid when he saw who it was, and he drew himself up until he stood
on his feet, his two big fists clenched, his yellow teeth snarling at her.

This is an atom: 
"You damned--spy!" he cried chokingly. "If you was a man--I'd kill you!"

This is an atom: 
The girl did not shrink. Her face did not whiten. Two bright spots flamed in her cheeks, and
Hawkins saw the triumph shining in her eyes. And there was a new thing in the odd twist of
her red lips, as she said tauntingly.

This is an atom: 
"If I was a man, Jed Hawkins--you'd run!"

This is an atom: 
He took a step toward her.

This is an atom: 
"You'd run," she repeated, meeting him squarely, and taking a tighter grip of her stick. "I
ain't ever seen you hit anything but a woman, an' a girl, or some poor animal that didn't dare
bite back. You're a coward, Jed Hawkins, a low-down, sneakin,' whiskey- sellin' coward--and
you oughta die!"

This is an atom: 
Even Peter sensed the cataclysmic change that had come in this moment between the two big rocks.
It held something in the air, like the impending crash of dynamite, or the falling down of
the world. He forgot himself, and looked up at his mistress, a wonderful, slim little thing
standing there at last unafraid before the future--and in his dog heart and soul a part of
the truth came to him, and he planted his big feet squarely in front of Jed Hawkins, and snarled
at him as he had never snarled before in his life.

This is an atom: 
And the bootlegger, for a moment, was stunned, For a while back he had humored the girl a little,
to hold her in peace and without suspicion until Mooney was able to turn over her body-money.
After that--after he had delivered her to the other's shack--it would all be up to Mooney,
he figured. And this was what had come of his peace-loving efforts! She was taking advantage
of him, defying him, spying upon him--the brat he had fed and brought up for ten years! Her
beauty as she stood there did not hold him back. It was punishment she needed, a beating, a
hair-pulling, until there was no breath left in her impudent body. He sprang forward, and Peter
let out a wild yip as he saw Nada raise her stick. But she was a moment too slow. The man's
hand caught it, and his right hand shot forward and buried itself in the thick, soft mass of
her hair.

This is an atom: 
It was then that something broke loose in Peter. For this day, this hour, this minute the gods
of destiny had given him birth. All things in the world were blotted out for him except one--the
six inches of naked shank between the bootlegger's trouser-leg and his shoe. He dove in. His
white teeth, sharp as stiletto-points, sank into it. And a wild and terrible yell came from
Jed Hawkins as he loosed the girl's hair. Peter heard the yell, and his teeth sank deeper in
the flesh of the first thing he had ever hated. It was the girl, more than Peter, who realized
the horror of what followed. The man bent down and his powerful fingers closed round Peter's
scrawny neck, and Peter felt his wind suddenly shut off, and his mouth opened. Then Jed Hawkins
drew back the arm that held him, as he would have drawn it back to fling a stone.

This is an atom: 
With a scream the girl tore at him as his arm straightened out, and Peter went hurtling through
the air. Her stick struck him fiercely across the face, and in that same moment there was a
sickening, crushing thud as Peter's loosely-jointed little body struck against the face of
the great rock. When Nada turned Peter was groveling in the sand, his hips and back broken
down, but his bright eyes were on her, and without a whimper or a whine he was struggling to
drag himself toward her. Only Jolly Roger could tell the story of how Peter's mother had died
for a woman, and in this moment it must have been that her spirit entered into Peter's soul,
for the pain of his terrible hurt was forgotten in his desire to drag himself back to the feet
of the girl, and die facing her enemy--the man. He did not know that he was dragging his broken
body only an inch at a time through the sand. But the girl saw the terrible truth, and with
a cry of agony which all of Hawkin's torture could not have wrung from her she ran to him,
and fell upon her knees, and gathered him tenderly in her arms. Then, in a flash, she was on
her feet, facing Jed Hawkins like a little demon.

This is an atom: 
"For that--I'll kill you!" she panted. "I will. I'll kill you!"

This is an atom: 
The blow of her stick had half blinded the bootlegger's one eye, but he was coming toward her.
Swift as a bird Nada turned and ran, and as the man's footsteps crunched in the gravel and
rock behind her a wild fear possessed her--fear for Peter, and not for herself. Very soon Hawkins
was left behind, cursing at the futility of the pursuit, and at the fate that had robbed him
of an eye.

This is an atom: 
Down the coulee and out into the green meadowland of the plain ran Nada, her hair streaming
brightly in the sun, her arms clutching Peter to her breast. Peter was whimpering now, crying
softly and piteously, just as once upon a time she had heard a baby cry--a little baby that
was dying. And her soul cried out in agony, for she knew that Peter, too, was dying. And as
she stumbled onward-- on toward the black forest, she put her face down to Peter and sobbed
over and over again his name.

This is an atom: 
"Peter--Peter--Peter--"

This is an atom: 
And Peter, joyous and grateful for her love and the sound of her voice even in these moments,
thrust out his tongue and caressed her cheek, and the girl's breath came in a great sob as
she staggered on.

This is an atom: 
"It's all right now, Peter," she crooned. "It's all right, baby. He won't hurt you any more,
an' we're goin' across the creek to Mister Roger's cabin, an' you'll be happy there. You'll
be happy-- "

This is an atom: 
Her voice choked full, and her mother-heart seemed to break inside her, just as life had gone
out of that other mother's heart when the baby died. For their grief, in God's reckoning of
things, was the same; and little Peter, sensing the greatness of this thing that had made them
one in flesh and blood, snuggled his wiry face closer in her neck, crying softly to her, and
content to die there close to the warmth of the creature he loved.

This is an atom: 
"Don't cry, baby," she soothed. "Don't cry, Peter, dear. It'll soon be all right--all right--"
And the sob came again into her throat, and clung there like a choking fist, until they came
to the edge of the big forest.

This is an atom: 
She looked down, and saw that Peter's eyes were closed; and not until then did the miracle
of understanding come upon her fully that there was no difference at all between the dying
baby's face and dying Peter's, except that one had been white and soft, and Peter's was different--and
covered with hair.

This is an atom: 
"God'll take care o' you, Peter," she whispered. "He will--God, 'n' me, and Mister Roger--"

This is an atom: 
She knew there was untruth in what she was saying for no one, not even God, would ever take
care of Peter again--in life. His still little face and the terrible grief in her own heart
told her that. For Peter's back was broken, and he was going--going even now--as she ran moaningly
with him through the deep aisles of the forest. But before he died, before his heart stopped
beating in her arms, she wanted to reach Jolly Roger's friendly cabin, in the big swamp beyond
the creek. It was not that he could save Peter, but something told her that Jolly Roger's presence
would make Peter's dying easier, both for Peter and for her, for in this first glad spring
of her existence the stranger in the forest shack had brought sunshine and hope and new dreams
into her life; and they had set him up, she and Peter, as they would have set up a god on a shrine.

This is an atom: 
So she ran for the fording place on Sucker Creek, which was a good half mile above the shack
in which the stranger was living. She was staggering, and short of wind, when she came to the
ford, and when she saw the whirl and rush of water ahead of her she remembered what Jolly Roger
had said about the flooding of the creek, and her eyes widened. Then she looked down at Peter,
piteously limp and still in her arms, and she drew a quick breath and made up her mind. She
knew that at this shallow place the water could not be more than up to her waist, even at the
flood- tide. But it was running like a mill-race.

This is an atom: 
She put her lips down to Peter's fuzzy little face, and held them there for a moment, and kissed
him.

This is an atom: 
"We'll make it, Peter," she whispered. "We ain't afraid, are we, baby? We'll make it--sure--sure--we'll
make it--"

This is an atom: 
She set out bravely, and the current swished about her ankles, to her knees, to her hips. And
then, suddenly, unseen hands under the water seemed to rouse themselves, and she felt them
pulling and tugging at her as the water deepened to her waist. In another moment she was fighting,
fighting to hold her feet, struggling to keep the forces from driving her downstream. And then
came the supreme moment, close to the shore for which she was striving. She felt herself giving
away, and she cried out brokenly for Peter not to be afraid. And then something drove pitilessly
against her body, and she flung out one arm, holding Peter close with the other--and caught
hold of a bit of stub that protruded like a handle from the black and slippery log the flood-water
had brought down upon her.

This is an atom: 
"We're all right, Peter," she cried, even in that moment when she knew she had lost. "We're
all ri--"

This is an atom: 
And then suddenly the bright glory of her head went down, and with her went Peter, still held
to her breast under the sweeping rush of the flood.

This is an atom: 
Even then it was thought of Peter that filled her brain. Somehow she was not afraid. She was
not terrified, as she had often been of the flood-rush of waters that smashed down the creeks
in springtime. An inundating roar was over her, under her, and all about her; it beat in a
hissing thunder against the drums of her ears, yet it did not frighten her as she had sometimes
been frightened. Even in that black chaos which was swiftly suffocating the life from her,
unspoken words of cheer for Peter formed in her heart, and she struggled to hold him to her,
while with her other hand she fought to raise herself by the stub of the log to which she clung.
For she was not thinking of him as Peter, the dog, but as something greater--something that
had fought for her that day, and because of her had died.

This is an atom: 
Suddenly she felt a force pulling her from above. It was the big log, turning again to that
point of equilibrium which for a space her weight had destroyed. In the edge of a quieter pool
where the water swirled but did not rush, her brown head appeared, and then her white face,
and with a last mighty effort she thrust up Peter so that his dripping body was on the log.
Sobbingly she filled her lungs with air. But the drench of water and her hair blinded her so
that she could not see. And she found all at once that the strength had gone from her body.
Vainly she tried to drag herself up beside Peter, and in the struggle she raised herself a
little, so that a low-hanging branch of a tree swept her like a mighty arm from the log.

This is an atom: 
With a cry she reached out for Peter. But he was gone, the log was gone, and she felt a vicious
pulling at her hair, as Jed Hawkins himself had often pulled it, and for a few moments the
current pounded against her body and the tree-limb swayed back and forth as it held her there
by her hair.

This is an atom: 
If there was pain from that tugging, Nada did not feel it. She could see now, and thirty yards
below her was a wide, quiet pool into which the log was drifting. Peter was gone. And then,
suddenly, her heart seemed to stop its beating, and her eyes widened, and in that moment of
astounding miracle she forgot that she was hanging by her hair in the ugly lip of the flood,
with slippery hands beating and pulling at her from below. For she saw Peter--Peter in the
edge of the pool--making his way toward the shore! For a space she could not believe. It must
be his dead body drifting. It could not be Peter--swimming! And yet--his head was above the
water--he was moving shoreward--he was struggling--

This is an atom: 
Frantically she tore at the detaining clutch above her. Something gave way. She felt the sharp
sting of it, and then she plunged into the current, and swept down with it, and in the edge
of the pool struck out with all her last strength until her feet touched bottom, and she could
stand. She wiped the water from her eyes, sobbing in her breathless fear--her mighty hope.
Peter had reached the shore. He had dragged himself out, and had crumpled down in a broken
heap--but he was facing her, his bright eyes wide open and questing for her. Slowly Nada went
to him. Until now, when it was all over, she had not realized how helplessly weak she was.
Something was turning round and round in her head, and she was so dizzy that the shore swam
before her eyes, and it seemed quite right to her that Peter should be alive--and not dead.
She was still in a foot of water when she fell on her knees and dragged herself the rest of
the way to him, and gathered him in her arms again, close up against her wet, choking breast.

This is an atom: 
And there the sun shone down upon them, without the shade of a twig overhead; and the water
that a little while before had sung of death rippled with its old musical joy, and about them
the birds sang, and very near to them a pair of mating red-squirrels chattered and played in
a mountain-ash tree. And Nada's hair brightened in the sun, and began to ripple into curls
at the end, and Peter's bristling whiskers grew dry--so that half an hour after she had dragged
herself out of the water there was a new light in the girl's eyes, and a color in her cheeks
that was like the first dawning of summer pink in the heart of a rose.

This is an atom: 
"We're a'most dry enough to go to Mister Jolly Roger, Peter," she whispered, a little thrill
in her voice.

This is an atom: 
She stood up, and shook out her half dry hair, and then picked up Peter--and winced when he
gave a little moan.

This is an atom: 
"He'll fix you, Peter," she comforted. "An' it'll be so nice over here--with him."

This is an atom: 
Her eyes were looking ahead, down through the glory of the sun- filled forest, and the song
of birds and the beauty of the world filled her soul, and a new and wonderful freedom seemed
to thrill in the touch of the soft earth under her feet.

This is an atom: 
"Flowers," she cried softly. "Flowers, an' birds, an' the sun, Peter--" She paused a moment,
as if listening to the throb of light and life about her. And then, "I guess we'll go to Mister
Jolly Roger now," she said.

This is an atom: 
She shook her hair again, so that it shone in a soft and rebellious glory about her, and the
violet light grew a little darker in her eyes, and the color a bit deeper in her cheeks as
she walked on into the forest over the faintly worn foot-trail that led to the old cabin where
Jolly Roger was keeping himself away from the eyes of men.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER III

This is an atom: 
From the little old cabin of dead Indian Tom, built in a grassy glade close to the shore of
Sucker Creek, came the sound of a man's laughter. In this late afternoon the last flooding
gold of the sun filled the open door of the poplar shack. The man's laughter, like the sun
on the mottled tapestry of the poplar-wood, was a heart-lightening thing there on the edge
of the great swamp that swept back for miles to the north and west. It was the sort of laughter
one seldom hears from a man, not riotous of over-bold, but a big, clean laughter that came
from the soul out. It was an infectious thing. It drove the gloom out of the blackest night.
It dispelled fear, and if ever there were devils lurking in the edge of old Indian Tom's swamp
they slunk away at the sound of it. And more than once, as those who lived in tepee and cabin
and far-away shack could testify, that laugh had driven back death itself.

This is an atom: 
In the shack, this last day of May afternoon, stood leaning over a rough table the man of the
laugh--Roger McKay, known as Jolly Roger, outlaw extraordinary, and sought by the men of every
Royal Northwest Mounted Police patrol north of the Height of Land.

This is an atom: 
It was incongruous and inconceivable to think of him as an outlaw, as he stood there in the
last glow of the sun--an outlaw with the weirdest and strangest record in all the northland
hung up against his name. He was not tall, and neither was he short, and he was as plump as
an apple and as rosy as its ripest side. There was something cherubic in the smoothness and
the fullness of his face, the clear gray of his eyes, the fine-spun blond of his short- cropped
hair, and the plumpness of his hands and half-bared arms. He was a priestly, well-fed looking
man, was this Jolly Roger, rotund and convivial in all his proportions, and some in great error
would have called him fat. But it was a strange kind of fatness, as many a man on the trail
could swear to. And as for sin, or one sign of outlawry, it could not be found in any mark
upon him--unless one closed his eyes to all else and guessed it by the belt and revolver holster
which he wore about his rotund waist. In every other respect Jolly Roger appeared to be not
only a harmless creature, but one especially designed by the Creator of things to spread cheer
and good-will wherever he went. His age, if he had seen fit to disclose it, was thirty-four.

This is an atom: 
There seemed, at first, to be nothing that even a contented man might laugh at in the cabin,
and even less to bring merriment from one on whose head a price was set--unless it was the
delicious aroma of a supper just about ready to be served. On a little stove in the farthest
corner of the shack the breasts of two spruce partridges were turning golden brown in a skittle,
and from the broken neck of a coffee pot a rich perfume was rising with the steam. Piping hot
in the open oven half a dozen baked potatoes were waiting in their crisp brown jackets.

This is an atom: 
From the table Jolly Roger turned, rubbing his hands and chuckling as he went for a third time
to a low shelf built against the cabin wall. There he carefully raised a mass of old papers
from a box, and at the movement there came a protesting squeak, and a little brown mouse popped
up to the edge of it and peered at him with a pair of bright little questioning eyes.

This is an atom: 
"You little devil!" he exulted. "You nervy little devil!"

This is an atom: 
He raised the papers higher, and again looked upon his discovery of half an hour ago. In a
soft nest lay four tiny mice, still naked and blind, and as he lowered the mass of papers the
mother burrowed back to them, and he could hear her squeaking and chirruping to the little
ones, as if she was trying to tell them not to be afraid of this man, for she knew him very
well, and it wasn't in his mind to hurt them. And Jolly Roger, as he returned to the setting
of his table, laughed again--and the laugh rolled out into the golden sunset, and from the
top of a spruce at the edge of the creek a big blue-jay answered it in a riotous challenge.

This is an atom: 
But at the bottom of that laugh, if one could have looked a bit deeper, was something more
than the naked little mice in the nest of torn-up paper. Today happiness had strangely come
this gay- hearted freebooter's way, and he might have reached out, and seized it, and have
kept it for his own. But in the hour of his opportunity he had refused it--because he was an
outlaw--because strong within him was a peculiar code of honor all his own. There was nothing
of man-made religion in the soul of Roger McKay. Nature was his god; its manifestations, its
life, and the air it gave him to breathe were the pages which made up the Book that guided
him. And within the last hour, since the sun had begun to drop behind the tips of the tallest
trees, these things had told him that he was a fool for turning away from the one great thing
in all life--simply because his own humors of existence had made him an outcast and hunted
by the laws of men. So the change had come, and for a space his soul was filled with the thrill
of song and laughter.

This is an atom: 
Half an hour ago he believed that he had definitely made up his mind. He had forced himself
into forgetfulness of laws he had broken, and the scarlet-coated men who were ever on the watch
for his trail. They would never seek him here, in the wilderness country close to the edge
of civilization, and time, he had told himself in that moment of optimism, would blot out both
his identity and his danger. Tomorrow he would go over to Cragg's Ridge again, and then--

This is an atom: 
His mind was crowded with a vision of blue eyes, of brown curls glowing in the pale sun, of
a wistful, wide-eyed little face turned up to him, and red lips that said falteringly, "I don't
think it's wrong for you to kiss me--if you want to, Mister Jolly Roger!"

This is an atom: 
Boldly he had talked about it to the bright-eyed little mother- mouse who peered at him now
and then over the edge of her box.

This is an atom: 
"You're a little devil of iniquity yourself," he told her. "You're a regular Mrs. Captain Kidd,
and you've eaten my cheese, and chawed my snowshoe laces, and robbed me of a sock to make your
nest. I ought to catch you in a trap, or blow your head off. But I don't. I let you live--and
have a fam'ly. And it's you who have given me the Big Idea, Mrs. Captain Kidd. You sure have!
You've told me I've got a right to have a nest of my own, and I'm going to have it--an' in
that nest is going to be the sweetest, prettiest little angel that God Almighty ever forgot
to make into a flower! Yessir. And if the law comes--"

This is an atom: 
And then, suddenly, the vision clouded, and there came into Jolly Roger's face the look of
a man who knew--when he stood the truth out naked--that he was facing a world with his back
to the wall.

This is an atom: 
And now, as the sun went down, and his supper waited--that cloud which came to blot out his
picture grew deeper and more sinister, and the chill of it entered his heart. He turned from
his table to the open door, and his fingers drew themselves slowly into clenched fists, and
he looked out quietly and steadily into his world. The darkening depths of the forest reached
out before his eyes, mottled and painted in the fading glory of the sun. It was his world,
his everything--father, mother, God. In it he was born, and in it he knew that some day he
would die. He loved it, understood it, and night and day, in sunshine and storm, its mighty
spirit was the spirit that kept him company. But it held no message for him now. And his ears
scarcely heard the raucous scolding of the blue-jay in the fire-tipped crest of the tall black
spruce.

This is an atom: 
And then that something which was bigger than desire came up within him, and forced itself
in words between his grimly set lips.

This is an atom: 
"She's only a--a kid," he said, a fierce, low note of defiance in his voice. "And I--I'm a
damned pirate, and there's jails waiting for me, and they'll get me sooner or later, sure as
God lets me live!"

This is an atom: 
He turned from the sun to his shadowing cabin, and for a moment a ghost of a smile played in
his face as he heard the little mother- mouse rustling among her papers.

This is an atom: 
"We can't do it," he said. "We simply can't do it, Mrs. Captain Kidd. She's had hell enough
without me taking her into another. And it'd be that, sooner or later. It sure would, Mrs.
Captain Kidd. But I'm glad, mighty glad, to think she'd let me kiss her-- if I wanted to. Think
of that, Mrs. Captain Kidd!--if I wanted to. Oh, Lord!"

This is an atom: 
And the humor of it crept in alongside the tragedy in Jolly Roger's heart, and he chuckled
as he bent over his partridge breasts.

This is an atom: 
"If I wanted to," he repeated. "Why, if I had a life to give, I'd give it--to kiss her just
once! But, as it happens, Mrs. Captain Kidd--"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's breath cut itself suddenly short, and for an instant he grew tense as he bent
over the stove. His philosophy had taught him one thing above all others, that he was a survival
of the fittest--only so long as he survived. And he was always guarding against the end. His
brain was keen, his ears quick, and every fibre in him trained to its duty of watchfulness.
And he knew, without turning his head, that someone was standing in the doorway behind him.
There had come a faint noise, a shadowing of the fading sun-glow on the wall, the electrical
disturbance of another presence, gazing at him quietly, without motion, and without sound.
After that first telegraphic shock of warning he stabbed his fork into a partridge breast,
flopped it over, chuckled loudly--and then with a lightning movement was facing the door, his
forty-four Colt leveled waist-high at the intruder.

This is an atom: 
Almost in the same movement his gun-arm dropped limply to his side.

This is an atom: 
"Well, I'll be--"

This is an atom: 
He stared. And the face in the doorway stared back at him.

This is an atom: 
"Nada!" he gasped. "Good Lord, I thought--I thought--" He swallowed as he tried to lie. "I
thought--it might be a bear!"

This is an atom: 
He did not, at first, see that the slim, calico-dressed little figure of Jed Hawkins' foster-girl
was almost dripping wet. Her blue eyes were shining at him, wide and startled. Her cheeks were
flushed. A strange look had frozen on her parted red lips, and her hair was falling loose in
a cloud of curling brown tresses about her shoulders. Jolly Roger, dreaming of her in his insane
happiness of a few minutes ago, sensed nothing beyond the beauty and the unexpectedness of
her in this first moment. Then--swiftly --he saw the other thing. The last glow of the sun
glistened in her wet hair, her dress was sodden and clinging, and little pools of water were
widening slowly about her ragged shoes. These things he might have expected, for she had to
cross the creek. But it was the look in her eyes that startled him, as she stood there with
Peter, the mongrel pup, clasped tightly in her arms.

This is an atom: 
"Nada, what's happened?" he asked, laying his gun on the table. "You fell in the creek--"

This is an atom: 
"It--it's Peter," she cried, with a sobbing break in her voice. "We come on Jed Hawkins when
he was diggin' up some of his whiskey, and he was mad, and pulled my hair, and Peter bit him--
and then he picked up Peter and threw him against a rock--and he's terribly hurt! Oh, Mister
Jolly Roger--"

This is an atom: 
She held out the pup to him, and Peter whimpered as Jolly Roger took his wiry little face between
his hands, and then lifted him gently. The girl was sobbing, with passionate little catches
in her breath, but there were no tears in her eyes as they turned for an instant from Peter
to the gun on the table.

This is an atom: 
"If I'd had that," she cried, "I'd hev killed him!"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's face was coldly gray as he knelt down on the floor and bent over Peter.

This is an atom: 
"He--pulled your hair, you say?"

This is an atom: 
"I--forgot," she whispered, close at his shoulder. "I wasn't goin' to tell you that. But it
didn't hurt. It was Peter--"

This is an atom: 
He felt the damp caress of her curls upon his neck as she bent over him.

This is an atom: 
"Please tell me, Mister Jolly Roger--is he hurt--bad?"

This is an atom: 
With the tenderness of a woman Jolly Roger worked his fingers over Peter's scrawny little body.
And Peter, whimpering softly, felt the infinite consolation of their touch. He was no longer
afraid of Jed Hawkins, or of pain, or of death. The soul of a dog is simple in its measurement
of blessings, and to Peter it was a great happiness to lie here, broken and in pain, with the
face of his beloved mistress over him and Jolly Roger's hands working to mend his hurt. He
whimpered when Jolly Roger found the broken place, and he cried out like a little child when
there came the sudden quick snapping of a bone--but even then he turned his head so that he
could thrust out his hot tongue against the back of his man-friend's hand. And Jolly Roger,
as he worked, was giving instructions to the girl, who was quick as a bird to bring him cloth
which she tore into bandages, so that at the end of ten minutes Peter's right hind leg was
trussed up so tightly that it was as stiff and as useless as a piece of wood.

This is an atom: 
"His hip was dislocated and his leg-bone broken," said Jolly Roger when he had finished. "He
is all right now, and inside of three weeks will be on his feet again."

This is an atom: 
He lifted Peter gently, and made him a nest among the blankets in his bunk. And then, still
with that strange, gray look in his face, he turned to Nada.

This is an atom: 
She was standing partly facing the door, her eyes straight on him. And Jolly Roger saw in them
that wonderful something which had given his storm-beaten soul a glimpse of paradise earlier
that day. They were blue, so blue that he had never seen violets like them--and he knew that
in her heart there was no guile behind which she could hide the secret they were betraying.
A yearning such as had never before come into his life urged him to open his arms to her, and
he knew that she would have come into them; but a still mightier will held them tense and throbbing
at his side. Her cheeks were aflame as she looked at him, and he told himself that God could
not have made a lovelier thing, as she stood there in her worn dress and her ragged shoes,
with that light of glory in her face, and her damp hair waving and curling about her in the
last light of the day.

This is an atom: 
"I knew you'd fix him, Mister-Roger," she whispered, a great pride and faith and worship in
the low thrill of her voice. "I knew it!"

This is an atom: 
Something choked Jolly Roger, and he turned to the stove and began spearing the crisp brown
potatoes on the end of a fork. And he said, with his back toward her,

This is an atom: 
"You came just in time for supper, Nada. We'll eat--and then I'll go home with you, as far
as the Ridge."

This is an atom: 
Peter watched them. His pain was gone, and it was nice and comfortable in Jolly Roger's blanket,
and with his whiskered face on his fore-paws his bright eyes followed every movement of these
two who so completely made up his world. He heard that sweet little laugh which came only now
and then from Nada's lips, when for a moment she was happy; he saw her shake out her hair in
the glow of the lamp which Jolly Roger lighted, and he observed Jolly Roger standing at the
stove--looking at her as she did it--a worship in his face which changed the instant her eyes
turned toward him. In Peter's active little brain this gave birth to nothing of definite understanding,
except that in it all he sensed happiness, for--somehow--there was always that feeling when
they were with Jolly Roger, no matter whether the sun was shining or the day was dark and filled
with gloom. Many times in his short life he had seen grief and tears in Nada's face, and had
seen her cringe and hide herself at the vile cursing and witch-like voice of the man and woman
back in the other cabin. But there was nothing like that in Jolly Roger's company. He had two
eyes, and he was not always cursing, and he did not pull Nada's hair--and Peter loved him from
the bottom of his soul. And he knew that his mistress loved him, for she had told him so, and
there was always a different look in her eyes when she was with Jolly Roger, and it was only
then that she laughed in that glad little way--as she was laughing now.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger was seated at the table, and Nada stood behind him, her face flushed joyously at
the wonderful privilege of pouring his coffee. And then she sat down, and Jolly Roger gave
her the nicest of the partridge breasts, and tried hard to keep his eyes calm and quiet as
he looked at the adorable sweetness of her across the table from him. To Nada there was nothing
of shame in what lay behind the happiness in the violet radiance of her eyes. Jolly Roger had
brought to her the only happiness that had ever come into her life. Next to her God, which
Jed Hawkins and his witch-woman had not destroyed within her, she thought of this stranger
who for three months had been hiding in Indian Tom's cabin. And, like Peter, she loved him.
The innocence of it lay naked in her eyes.

This is an atom: 
"Nada," said Jolly Roger. "You're seventeen--"

This is an atom: 
"Goin' on eighteen," she corrected quickly. "I was seventeen two weeks ago!"

This is an atom: 
The quick, undefined little note of eagerness in her voice made his heart thump. He nodded,
and smiled.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, going on eighteen," he said. "And pretty soon some young fellow will come along, and
see you, and marry you--"

This is an atom: 
"O-o-o-h-h-h!"

This is an atom: 
It was a little, strange cry that came to her lips, and Jolly Roger saw a quick throbbing in
her bare throat. and her eyes were so wide-open and startled as she looked at him that he felt,
for a moment, as if the resolution in his soul was giving way.

This is an atom: 
"Where are you goin', Mister Roger?"

This is an atom: 
"Me? Oh, I'm not going anywhere--not for a time, at least. But you--you'll surely be going
away with some one--some day."

This is an atom: 
"I won't," she denied hotly. "I hate men! I hate all but you, Mister Jolly Roger. And if you
go away--"

This is an atom: 
"Yes, if I go away--

This is an atom: 
"I'll kill Jed Hawkins!"

This is an atom: 
Involuntarily she reached out a slim hand to the big gun on the corner of the table.

This is an atom: 
"I'll kill 'im, if you go away," she threatened again, "He's broken his wife, and crippled
her, and if it wasn't for her I'd have gone long ago. But I've promised, and I'm goin' to stay--
until something happens. And if you go--now--"

This is an atom: 
At the choking throb in her throat and the sudden quiver that came to her lips, Jolly Roger
jumped up for the coffee pot, though his cup was still half full.

This is an atom: 
"I won't go, Nada," he cried, trying to laugh. "I promise--cross my heart and hope to die!
I won't go--until you tell me I can."

This is an atom: 
And then, feeling that something had almost gone wrong for a moment, Peter yipped from his
nest in the bunk, and the gladness in Nada's eyes thanked Jolly Roger for his promise when
he came back with the coffee pot. Standing behind her, he made pretense of refilling her cup,
though she had scarcely touched it, and all the time his eyes were looking at her beautiful
head, and he saw again the dampness in her hair.

This is an atom: 
"What happened in the creek, Nada?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
She told him, and at the mention of his name Peter drew his bristling little head erect, and
waited expectantly. He could see Jolly Roger's face, now staring and a bit shocked, and then
with a quick smile flashing over it; and when Nada had finished, Jolly Roger leaned a little
toward her in the lampglow, and said,

This is an atom: 
"You've got to promise me something, Nada. If Jed Hawkins ever hits you again, or pulls your
hair, or even threatens to do it-- will you tell me?" Nada hesitated.

This is an atom: 
"If you don't--I'll take back my promise, and won't stay," he added.

This is an atom: 
"Then--I'll promise," she said. "If he does it, I'll tell you. But I ain't--I mean I am not
afraid, except for Peter. Jed Hawkins will sure kill him if I take him back, Mister Roger.
Will you keep him here? And--o-o-o-h!--if I could only stay, too--"

This is an atom: 
The words came from her in a frightened breath, and in an instant a flood of color rushed like
fire into her cheeks. But Jolly Roger turned again to the stove, and made as if he had not
seen the blush or heard her last words, so that the shame of her embarrassment was gone as
quickly as it had come.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I'll keep Peter," he said over his shoulder. And in his heart another voice which she
could not hear, was crying, "And I'd give my life if I could keep you!"

This is an atom: 
Devouring his bits of partridge breast, Peter watched Jolly Roger and Nada out of the corner
of his eye as they left the cabin half an hour later. It was dark when they went, and Jolly
Roger closed only the mosquito-screen, leaving the door wide open, and Peter could hear their
footsteps disappearing slowly into the deep gloom of the forest. It was a little before moonrise,
and under the spruce and cedar and thick balsam the world was like a black pit. It was very
still, and except for the soft tread of their own feet and the musical ripple of water in the
creek there was scarcely a sound in this first hour of the night. In Jolly Roger there rose
something of exultation, for Nada's warm little hand lay in his as he guided her through the
darkness, and her fingers had clasped themselves tightly round his thumb. She was very close
to him when he paused to make sure of the unseen trail, so close that her cheek rested against
his arm, and--bending a little--his lips touched the soft ripples of her hair. But he could
not see her in the gloom, and his heart pounded fiercely all the way to the ford.

This is an atom: 
Then he laughed a strange little laugh that was not at all like Jolly Roger.

This is an atom: 
"I'll try and not let you get wet again, Nada," he said.

This is an atom: 
Her fingers still held to his thumb, as if she was afraid of losing him there in the blackness
that lay about them like a great ink-blotch. And she crept closer to him, saying nothing, and
all the power in his soul fought in Jolly Roger to keep him from putting his arms about her
slim little body and crying out the worship that was in him.

This is an atom: 
"I ain't--I mean I'm not afraid of gettin' wet," he heard her whisper then. "You're so big
and strong, Mister Roger--"

This is an atom: 
Gently he freed his thumb from her fingers, and picked her up, and held her high, so that she
was against his breast and above the deepest of the water. Lightly at first Nada's arms lay
about his shoulders, but as the flood began to rush higher and she felt him straining against
it,--her arms tightened, until the clasp of them was warm and thrilling round Jolly Roger's
neck. She gave a big gasp of relief when he stood her safely down upon her feet on the other
side. And then again she reached out, and found his hand, and twined her fingers about his
big thumb--and Jolly Roger went on with her over the plain toward Cragg's Ridge, dripping wet,
just as the rim of the moon began to rise over the edge of the eastern forests.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER IV

This is an atom: 
It seemed an interminable wait to Peter, back in the cabin. Jolly Roger had put out the light,
and when the moon came up the glow of it did not come into the dark room where Peter lay, for
the open door was to the west, and curtains were drawn closely at both windows. But through
the door he could see the first mellowing of the night, and after that the swift coming of
a soft, golden radiance which swallowed all darkness and filled his world with the ghostly
shadows which seemed alive, yet never made a sound. It was a big, splendid moon this night,
and Peter loved the moon, though he had seen it only a few times in his three months of life.
It fascinated him more than the sun, for it was always light when the sun came, and he had
never seen the sun eat up darkness, as the moon did. Its mystery awed him, but did not frighten.
He could not quite understand the strange, still shadows which were always unreal when he nosed
into them, and it puzzled him why the birds did not fly about in the moon glow, and sing as
they did in the day-time. And something deep in him, many generations older than himself, made
his blood run faster when this thing that ate up darkness came creeping through the sky, and
he was filled with a yearning to adventure out into the strange glow of it, quietly and stealthily,
watching and listening for things he had never seen or heard.

This is an atom: 
In the gloom of the cabin his eyes remained fixed steadily upon the open door, and for a long
time he listened only for the returning footsteps of Jolly Roger and Nada. Twice he made efforts
to drag himself to the edge of the bunk, but the movement sent such a cutting pain through
him that he did not make a third. And outside, after a time, he heard the Night People rousing
themselves. They were very cautious, these Night People, for unlike the creatures of the dawn,
waking to greet the sun with song and happiness, most of them were sharp-fanged and long- clawed-rovers
and pirates of the great wilderness, ready to kill. And this, too, Peter sensed through the
generations of northland dog that was in him. He heard a wolf howl, coming faintly through
the night from miles away, and something told him it was not a dog. From nearer came the call
of a moose, and that same sense told him he had heard a monster bear which his eyes had never
seen. He did not know of the soft-footed, night-eyed creatures of prey--the fox, the lynx,
the fisher-cat, the mink and the ermine, nor of the round-eyed, feathered murderers in the
tree-tops--yet that same something told him they were out there among the shadows, under the
luring glow of the moon. And a thing happened, all at once, to stab the truth home to him.
A baby snowshoe rabbit, a third grown, hopped out into the open close to the cabin door, and
as it nibbled at the green grass, a gray catapult of claw and feathers shot out of the air,
and Peter heard the crying agony of the rabbit as the owl bore it off into the thick spruce
tops. Even then--unafraid--Peter wanted to go out into the moon glow!

This is an atom: 
At last, there was an end to his wait. He heard footsteps, and Jolly Roger came from out of
the yellow moon-mist of the night and stopped in front of the door. There he stood, making
no sound, and looking into the west, where the sky was ablaze with stars over the tree-tops.
There was a glad little yip in Peter's throat, but he choked it back. Jolly Roger was strangely
quiet, and Peter could not hear Nada, and as he sniffed, and gulped the lump in his throat,
he seemed to catch the breath of something impending in the air. Then Jolly Roger came in,
and sat down in darkness near the table, and for a long time Peter kept his eyes fixed on the
shadowy blotch of him there in the gloom, and listened to his breathing, until he could stand
it no longer, and whined.

This is an atom: 
The sound stirred Jolly Roger. He got up, struck a match--and then blew the match out, and
came and sat down beside Peter, and stroked him with his hand.

This is an atom: 
"Peter," he said in a low voice, "I guess we've got a job on our hands. You began it today--and
I've got to finish it. We're goin' to kill Jed Hawkins!"

This is an atom: 
Peter snuggled closer.

This is an atom: 
"Mebby I'm bad, and mebby the law ought to have me," Jolly Roger went on in the darkness, "but
until tonight I never made up my mind to kill a man. I'm ready--now. If Jed Hawkins hurts her
again we're goin' to kill him! Understand, Pied-Bot?"

This is an atom: 
He got up, and Peter could hear him undressing. Then he made a nest for Peter on the floor,
and stretched himself out in the bunk; and after that, for a long time, there seemed to be
something heavier than the gloom of night in the cabin for Peter, and he listened and waited
and prayed in his dog way for Nada's return, and wondered why it was that she left him so long.
And the Night People held high carnival under the yellow moon, and there was flight and terror
and slaughter in the glow of it--and Jolly Roger slept, and the wolf howled nearer, and the
creek chortled its incessant song of running water, and in the end Peter's eyes closed, and
a red-eyed ermine peeped over the sill into the man- and dog-scented stillness of the outlaw's
cabin.

This is an atom: 
For many days after this first night in the cabin, Peter did not see Nada. There was more rain,
and the creek flooded higher, so that each time Jolly Roger went over to Cragg's Ridge he took
his life in his hands in fording the stream. Peter saw no one but Jolly Roger, and at the end
of the second week he was going about on his mended leg. But there would always be a limp in
his gait, and always his right hind-foot would leave a peculiar mark in the trail.

This is an atom: 
These two weeks of helplessness were an education in Peter's life and were destined to leave
their mark upon him always. He learned to know Jolly Roger, not alone from seeing events, but
through an intuitive instinct that grew swiftly somewhere in his shrewd head. This instinct,
given widest scope in these weeks of helplessness, developed faster than any other in him,
until in the end, he could judge Jolly Roger's humor by the sound of his approaching footsteps.
Never was there a waking hour in which he was not fighting to comprehend the mystery of the
change that had come over his life. He knew that Nada was gone, and each day that passed put
her farther away from him, yet he also sensed the fact that Jolly Roger went to her, and when
the outlaw returned to the cabin Peter was filled with a yearning hope that Nada was returning
with him.

This is an atom: 
But gradually Peter came to think less about Nada, and more about Jolly Roger, until at last
his heart beat with a love for this man which was greater than all other things in his world.
And in these days Jolly Roger found in Peter's comradeship and growing understanding a comforting
outlet for the things which at times consumed him. Peter saw it all--hours when Jolly Roger's
voice and laughter filled the cabin with cheer and happiness, and others when his face was
set in grim lines, with that hard, far-away look in his eyes that Peter could never quite make
out. It was at such times, when Jolly Roger held a choking grip on the love in his heart, that
he told Peter things which he had never revealed to a human soul.

This is an atom: 
In the dusk of one evening, as he sat wet with the fording of the creek, he said to Peter,

This is an atom: 
"We ought to go, Peter. We ought to pack up--and go tonight. Because--sometimes I'm afraid
of myself, Pied-Bot. I'd kill for her. I'd die for her. I'd give up the whole world, and live
in a prison cell--if I could have her with me. And that's dangerous, Peter, because we can't
have her. It's impossible, boy. She doesn't guess why I'm here. She doesn't know I've been
outlawin' it for years, and that I'm hiding here because the Police would never think of looking
for Jolly Roger McKay this close to civilization. If I told her, she would think I was worse
than Jed Hawkins, and she wouldn't believe me if I told her I've outlawed with my wits instead
of a gun, and that I've never criminally hurt a person in my life. No, she wouldn't believe
that, Peter. And she--she cares for me, Pied-Bot. That's the hell of it! And she's got faith
in me, and would go with me to the Missioner's tomorrow. I know it. I can see it, feel it, and I--"

This is an atom: 
His fingers tightened in the loose hide of Peter's neck.

This is an atom: 
"Peter," he whispered in the thickening darkness. "I believe there's a God, but He's a different
sort of God than most people believe in. He lives in the trees out there, in the flowers, in
the birds, the sky, in everything--and I hope that God will strike me dead if I do what isn't
right with her, Peter! I do. I hope he strikes me dead!"

This is an atom: 
And that night Peter knew that Jolly Roger tossed about restlessly in his bunk, and slept but
little

This is an atom: 
But the next morning he was singing, and the warm sun flooding over the wilderness was not
more cheerful than his voice as he cooked their breakfast. That, to Peter, was the most puzzling
thing about this man. With gloom and oppression fastened upon him he would rise up suddenly,
and start whistling or singing, and once he said to Peter,

This is an atom: 
"I take my cue from the sun, Peter Clubfoot. It's always shining, no matter if the clouds are
so thick underneath that we can't see it. A laugh never hurts a man, unless he's got a frozen
lung."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger did not cross the ford that day.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER V

This is an atom: 
It was in the third week after his hurt that Peter saw Nada. By that time he could easily follow
Jolly Roger as far as the fording-place, and there he would wait, sometimes hours at a stretch,
while his comrade and master went over to Cragg's Ridge. But frequently Jolly Roger would not
cross, but remained with Peter, and would lie on his back at the edge of a grassy knoll they
had found, reading one of the little old-fashioned red books which Peter knew were very precious
to him. Often he wondered what was between the faded red covers that was so interesting, and
if he could have read he would have seen such titles as "Margaret of Anjou," "History of Napoleon,"
"History of Peter the Great," "Caesar," "Columbus the Discoverer," and so on through the twenty
volumes which Jolly Roger had taken from a wilderness mail two years before, and which he now
prized next to his life.

This is an atom: 
This afternoon, as they lay in the sleepy quiet of June, Jolly Roger answered the questioning
inquisitiveness in Peter's face and eyes.

This is an atom: 
"You see, Pied-Bot, it was this way," he said, beginning a little apologetically. "I was dying
for something to read, and I figgered there'd be something on the Mail--newspapers, you know.
So I stopped it, and tied up the driver, and found these. And I swear I didn't take anything
else--that time. There's twenty of them, and they weigh nine pounds, and in the last two years
I've toted them five thousand miles. I wouldn't trade them for my weight in gold, and I'm pretty
heavy. I named you after one of them--Peter. I pretty near called you Christopher Columbus.
And some day we've got to take these books to the man they were going to, Peter. I've promised
myself that. It seems sort of like stealing the soul out of someone. I just borrowed them,
that's all. And I've kept the address of the owner, away up on the edge of the Barrens. Some
day we're going to make a special trip to take the books home."

This is an atom: 
Peter, all at once, had become interested in something else, and following the direction of
his pointed nose Jolly Roger saw Nada standing quietly on the opposite side of the stream,
looking at them. In a moment Peter knew her, and he was trembling in every muscle when Jolly
Roger caught him up under his arm, and with a happy laugh plunged through the creek with him.
For a good five minutes after that Jolly Roger stood aside watching Peter and Nada, and there
was a glisten of dampness in his eyes when he saw the wet on Nada's cheeks, and the whimpering
joy of Peter as he caressed her face and hands. Three weeks had been a long time to Peter,
but he could see no difference in the little mistress he worshipped. There were still the radiant
curls to hide his nose in, the gentle hands, the sweet voice, the warm thrill of her body as
she hugged him in her arms. He did not know that she had new shoes and a new dress, and that
some of the color had gone from her red lips, and that her cheeks were paler, and that she
could no longer hide the old haunted look in her eyes.

This is an atom: 
But Jolly Roger saw the look, and the growing pallor, and had noted them for two weeks past.
And later that afternoon, when Nada returned to Cragg's Ridge, and he re-crossed the stream
with Peter, there was a hard and terrible look in his eyes which Peter had caught there more
and more frequently of late. And that evening, in the twilight of their cabin, Jolly Roger said,

This is an atom: 
"It's coming soon, Peter. I'm expecting it. Something is happening which she won't tell us
about. She is afraid for me. I know it. But I'm going to find out--soon. And then, Pied-Bot,
I think we'll probably kill Jed Hawkins, and hit for the North."

This is an atom: 
The gloom of foreboding that was in Jolly Roger's voice and words seemed to settle over the
cabin for many days after that, and more than ever Peter sensed the thrill and warning of that
mysterious something which was impending. He was developing swiftly, in flesh and bone and
instinct, and there began to possess him now the beginning of that subtle caution and shrewdness
which were to mean so much to him later on. An instinct greater than reason, if it was not
reason itself, told him that his master was constantly watching for something which did not
come. And that same instinct, or reason, impinged upon him the fact that it was a thing to
be guarded against. He did not go blindly into the mystery of things now. He circumvented them,
and came up from behind. Craft and cunning replaced mere curiosity and puppyish egoism. He
was quick to learn, and Jolly Roger's word became his law, so that only once or twice was he
told a thing, and it became a part of his understanding. While the keen, shrewd brain of his
Airedale father developed inside Peter's head, the flesh and blood development of his big,
gentle, soft-footed Mackenzie hound mother kept pace in his body. His legs and feet began to
lose their grotesqueness. Flesh began to cover the knots in his tail. His head, bristling fiercely
with wiry whiskers, seemed to pause for a space to give his lanky body a chance to catch up
with it. And in spite of his big feet, so clumsy that a few weeks ago they had stumbled over
everything in his way, he could now travel without making a sound.

This is an atom: 
So it came to pass, after a time, that when Peter heard footsteps approaching the cabin he
made no effort to reveal himself until he knew it was Jolly Roger who was coming. And this
was strangely in spite of the fact that in the five weeks since Nada had brought him from Cragg's
Ridge no one but Jolly Roger and Nada had set foot within sight of the shack. It was an inborn
caution, growing stronger in him each day. There came one early evening when Peter made a discovery.
He had returned with Jolly Roger from a fishing trip farther down the creek, and scarcely had
he set nose to the little clearing about the cabin when he caught the presence of a strange
scent. He investigated it swiftly, and found it all about the cabin, and very strong close
up against the cabin door. There were no doubts in Peter's mind. A man had been there, and
this man had gone around and around the cabin, and had opened the door, and had even gone inside,
for Peter found the scent of him on the floor. He tried, in a way, to tell Jolly Roger. He
bristled, and whined, and looked searchingly into the darkening edge of the forest. Jolly Roger
quested with him for a few moments, and when he failed to find marks in the ground he began
cleaning a fish for supper, and said.

This is an atom: 
"Probably a wolverine, Pied-Bot. The rascal came to see what he could find while we were away."

This is an atom: 
But Peter was not satisfied. He was restless all that night. Sounds which had been familiar
now held a new significance for him. The next day he was filled with a quiet but brooding expectancy.
He resented the intrustion of the strange footprints. It was, in his process of instinctive
reasoning, an encroachment upon the property rights of his master, and he was--true to the
law of his species--the guardian of those rights.

This is an atom: 
The fourth evening after the stranger's visit to the cabin Jolly Roger was later than usual
in returning from Cragg's Ridge. Peter had been on a hunting adventure of his own, and came
to the cabin at sunset. But he never came out of cover now without standing quietly for a few
moments, getting the wind, and listening. And tonight, poking his head between some balsams
twenty yards from the shack, he was treated to a sudden thrill. The cabin door was open. And
standing close to this door, looking quietly and cautiously about, stood a stranger. He was
not like Jed Hawkins, was Peter's first impression. He was tall, with a wide-brimmed hat, and
wore boots with striped trousers tucked into them, and on his coat were bits of metal which
caught the last gleams of the sun. Peter knew nothing of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police.
But he sensed danger, and he remained very quiet, without moving a muscle of his head or body,
while the stranger looked about, with a hand on his unbuttoned pistol holster. Not until he
entered the cabin, and closed the door after him, did Peter move back into the deeper gloom
of the forest. And then, silent as a fox, he skulked through cover to the foot-trail, and down
the trail to the ford, across which Jolly Roger would come from Cragg's Ridge.

This is an atom: 
There was still half an hour of daylight when Jolly Roger arrived. Peter did not, as usual,
run to the edge of the bank to meet him. He remained sitting stolidly on his haunches, with
his ears flattened, and in his whole attitude no sign of gladness at his master's coming. With
every instinct of caution developed to the highest degree within him, Jolly Roger was lightning
quick to observe the significance of small things. He spoke to Peter, caressed him with his
hand, and moved on along the foot-trail toward the cabin. Peter fell in behind him moodily,
and after a few moments stopped, and squatted on his haunches again. Jolly Roger was puzzled.

This is an atom: 
"What is it, Peter?" he asked. "Are you afraid of that wolverine-- "

This is an atom: 
Peter whined softly; but even as he whined, his ears were flat, and his eyes filled with a
red light as they glared down the trail beyond the outlaw. Jolly Roger turned and went on,
until he disappeared around a twist in the path. There he stopped, and peered back. Peter was
not following him, but still sat where he had left him. A quicker breath came to Jolly Roger's
lips, and he went back to Peter. For fully a minute he stood beside him, watching and listening,
and not once did the reddish glare in Peter's eyes leave the direction of the cabin. Jolly
Roger's eyes had grown very bright, and suddenly he dropped on his knees beside Peter, and
spoke softly, close up to his flattened ear.

This is an atom: 
"You say it isn't a wolverine, Peter? Is that what you're trying to tell me?"

This is an atom: 
Peter's teeth clicked, and he whimpered, never taking his eyes from ahead.

This is an atom: 
There was a cold light in Jolly Roger's eyes as he rose to his feet, and he turned swiftly
and quietly into the edge of the forest, and in the gloom that was gathering there his hand
carried the big automatic. Peter followed him now, and Jolly Roger swung in a wide circle,
so that they came up on that forest side of the cabin where there was no window. And here Jolly
Roger knelt down beside Peter again, and whispered to him.

This is an atom: 
"You stay here, Pied-Bot. Understand? You stay here."

This is an atom: 
He pressed him down gently with his hand, so that Peter understood. Then, slinking low, and
swift as a cat, Jolly Roger ran to the end of the cabin where there was no window. With his
head close to the ground he peered out cautiously at the door. It was closed. Then he looked
at the windows. To the west the curtains were up, as he had left them. And to the east--

This is an atom: 
A whimsical smile played at the corners of his mouth. Those curtains he had kept tightly drawn.
One of them was down now. But the other was raised two inches, so that one hidden within the
cabin could watch the approach from the trail!

This is an atom: 
He drew back, and under his breath he chuckled. He recognized the sheer nerve of the thing,
the clever handiwork of it. Someone was inside the cabin, and he was ready to stake his life
it was Cassidy, the Irish bloodhound of "M" Division. If anyone ferreted him out way down here
on the edge of civilization he had gambled with himself that it would be Cassidy. And Cassidy
had come-- Cassidy, who had hung like a wolf to his trails for three years, who had chased
him across the Barren Lands, who had followed him up the Mackenzie, and back again--who had
fought with him, and starved with him, and froze with him, yet had never brought him to prison.
Deep down in his heart Jolly Roger loved Cassidy. They had played, and were still playing,
a thrilling game, and to win that game had become the life's ambition of each. And now Cassidy
was in there, confident that at last he had his man, and waiting for him to step into the trap.

This is an atom: 
To Jolly Roger, in the face of its possible tragedy, there was a deep-seated humor in the situation.
Three times in the last year and a half had he turned the tables on Cassidy, leaving him floundering
in the cleverly woven webs which the man-hunter had placed for his victim. This was the fourth
time. And Cassidy would be tremendously upset!

This is an atom: 
Praying that Peter would remain quiet, Jolly Roger took off his shoes. After that he made no
more sound than a ferret as he crept to the door. An inch at a time he raised himself, until
he was standing up, with his ear half an inch from the crack that ran lengthwise of the frame.
Holding his breath, he listened. For an interminable time, it seemed to him, there was no sound
from within. He guessed what Cassidy was doing--peering through that slit of window under the
curtain. But he was not absolutely sure. And he knew the necessity of making no error, with
Cassidy in there, gripping the butt of his gun.

This is an atom: 
Suddenly he heard a movement. A man's steps, subdued and yet distinct, were moving from the
window toward the door. Half way they paused, and turned to one of the windows looking westward.
But it was evident the watcher was not expecting his game from that direction, for after a
moment's silence he returned to the window through which he could see the trail. This time
Jolly Roger was sure. Cassidy was again peering through the window, with his back toward him,
and every muscle in the forest rover's body gathered for instant action. In another moment
he had flung open the door, and the watcher at the window whirled about to find himself looking
straight into the muzzle of Jolly Roger's gun.

This is an atom: 
For several minutes after that last swift movement of Jolly Roger's, Peter lay where his master
had left him, his eyes fairly popping from his head in his eagerness to see what was happening.
He heard voices, and then the wild thrill of Jolly Roger's laughter, and restraining himself
no longer he trotted cautiously to the open door of the cabin. In a chair sat the stranger
with the broad-brimmed hat and high boots, with his hands securely tied behind him. And Jolly
Roger was hustling about, filling a shoulder-pack in the last light of the day.

This is an atom: 
"Cassidy, I oughta kill you," Jolly Roger was saying as he worked, an exultant chuckle in his
voice. "You don't give me any peace. No matter where I go you're sure to come, and I can't
remember that I ever invited you. I oughta put you out of the way, and plant flowers over you,
now that I've got the chance. But I'm too chicken-hearted. Besides, I like you. By the time
you get tired of chasing me you should be a pretty good man-hunter. But just now you lack finesse,
Cassidy--you lack finesse. "And Jolly Roger's chuckle broke into another laugh.

This is an atom: 
Cassidy heaved out a grunt.

This is an atom: 
"It's luck--just damned luck!" he growled.

This is an atom: 
"If it is, I hope it keeps up," said Jolly Roger. "Now, look here, Cassidy! Let's make a man's
bet of it. If you don't get me next time--if you fail, and I turn the trick on you once more--will
you quit?"

This is an atom: 
Cassidy's eyes gleamed in the thickening dusk.

This is an atom: 
"If I don't get you next time--I'll hand in my resignation!"

This is an atom: 
The laughter went out of Jolly Roger's voice.

This is an atom: 
"I believe you, Cassidy. You've played square--always. And now--if I free your hands--will
you swear to give me a two hours' start before you leave this cabin?"

This is an atom: 
"I'll give you the start," said Cassidy.

This is an atom: 
His lean face was growing indistinct in the gloom.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger came up behind him. There was the slash of a knife. Then he picked up his shoulder-pack.
At the door he paused.

This is an atom: 
"Look at your watch when I'm gone, Cassidy, and be sure you make it a full two hours."

This is an atom: 
"I'll make it two hours and five minutes," said Cassidy. "Hittin' north are you, Jolly Roger?"

This is an atom: 
"I'm hittin'--bushward," replied the outlaw. "I'm going where it's plenty thick and hard to
travel, Cassidy. Goodby--"

This is an atom: 
He was gone. He hit straight north, making noise as he went, but once in the timber he swung
southward, and plunged through the creek with Peter under his arm. Not until they had traveled
a good half mile over the plain did Jolly Roger speak. Then he said, speaking directly at Peter,

This is an atom: 
"Cassidy thinks I'll sure hit for the North country again, Pied- Bot. But we're foolin' him.
I've sort of planned on something like this happening, and right now we're hittin' for the
tail-end of Cragg's Ridge where there's a mess of rock that the devil himself can hardly get
into. We've got to do it, boy. We can't leave the girl--just now. We can't leave--her--"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's voice choked. Then he paused for a moment, and bent over to put his hand on Peter.

This is an atom: 
"If it hadn't been for you, Peter--Cassidy would have got me-- sure. And I'm wondering, Peter--I'm
wondering--why did God forget to give a dog speech?"

This is an atom: 
Peter whined in answer, and through the darkness of the night they went on together.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER VI

This is an atom: 
A frosty mist dulled the light of the stars, but this cleared away as Jolly Roger and Peter
crossed the plain between the creek and Cragg's Ridge.

This is an atom: 
They did not hurry, for McKay had faith in Cassidy's word. He knew the red-headed man-hunter
would not break his promise--he would wait the full two hours in Indian Tom's cabin, and another
five minutes after that. In Jolly Roger, as the minutes passed, exultation at his achievement
died away, and there filled him again the old loneliness--the loneliness which called out against
the fate which had made of Cassidy an enemy instead of a friend. And yet--what an enemy!

This is an atom: 
He reached down, and touched Peter's bushy head with his hand.

This is an atom: 
"Why didn't the Law give another man the assignment to run us down," he protested. "Someone
we could have hated, and who would have hated us! Why did they send Cassidy--the fairest and
squarest man that ever wore red? We can't do him a dirty turn--we can't hurt him, Pied-Bot,
even at the worst. And if ever he takes us in to Headquarters, and looks at us through the
bars, I feel it's going to be like a knife in his heart. But he'll do it, Peter, if he can.
It's his job. And he's honest. We've got to say that of Cassidy."

This is an atom: 
The Ridge loomed up at the edge of the level plain, and for a few moments Jolly Roger paused,
while he looked off through the eastward gloom. A mile in that direction, beyond the cleft
that ran like a great furrow through the Ridge, was Jed Hawkins' cabin, still and dark under
the faint glow of the stars. And in that cabin was Nada. He felt that she was sitting at her
little window, looking out into the night, thinking of him--and a great desire gripped at his
heart, tugging him in its direction. But he turned toward the west.

This is an atom: 
"We can't let her know what has happened, boy," he said, feeling the urge of caution. "For
a little while we must let her think we have left the country. If Cassidy sees her, and talks
with her, something in those blue-flower eyes of hers might give us away if she knew we were
hiding up among the rocks of the Stew-Kettle. But I'm hopin' God A'mighty won't let her see
Cassidy. And I'm thinking He won't, Pied-Bot, because I've a pretty good hunch He wants us
to settle with Jed Hawkins before we go."

This is an atom: 
It was a habit of his years of aloneness, this talking to a creature that could make no answer.
But even in the darkness he sensed the understanding of Peter.

This is an atom: 
Rocks grew thicker and heavier under their feet, and they went more slowly, and occasionally
stumbled in the gloom. But, after a fashion, they knew their way even in darkness. More than
once Peter had wondered why his master had so carefully explored this useless mass of upheaved
rock at the end of Cragg's Ridge. They had never seen an animal or a blade of grass in all
its gray, sun- blasted sterility. It was like a hostile thing, overhung with a half-dead, slow-beating
something that was like the dying pulse of an evil thing. And now darkness added to its mystery
and its unfriendliness as Peter nosed close at his master's heels. Up and up they picked their
way, over and between ragged upheavals of rock, twisting into this broken path and that, feeling
their way, partly sensing it, and always ascending toward the stars. Roger McKay did not speak
again to Peter. Each time he came out where the sky was clear he looked toward the solitary
dark pinnacle, far up and ahead, strangely resembling a giant tombstone in the star- glow,
that was their guide. And after many minutes of strange climbing, in which it seemed to Jolly
Roger the nail-heads in the soles of his boots made weirdly loud noises on the rocks, they
came near to the top.

This is an atom: 
There they stopped, and in a deeply shadowed place where there was a carpet of soft sand, with
walls of rock close on either side, Jolly Roger spread out his blankets. Then he went out from
the black shadow, so that a million stars seemed not far away over their heads. Here he sat
down, and began to smoke, thinking of what tomorrow would hold for him, and of the many days
destined to follow that tomorrow. Nowhere in the world was there to be--for him--the peace
of an absolute certainty. Not until he felt the cold steel of iron bars with his two hands,
and the fatal game had been played to the end.

This is an atom: 
There was no corrosive bitterness of the vengeful in Jolly Roger's heart. For that reason even
his enemies, the Police, had fallen into the habit of using the nickname which the wilderness
people had given him. He did not hate these police. Curiously, he loved them. Their type was
to him the living flesh and blood of the finest manhood since the Crusaders. And he did not
hate the law. At times the Law, as personified in all of its unswerving majesty, amused him.
It was so terribly serious over such trivial things-- like himself, for instance. It could
not seem to sleep or rest until a man was hanged, or snugly put behind hard steel, no matter
how well that man loved his human-kind--and the world. And Jolly Roger loved both. In his heart
he believed he had not committed a crime by achieving justice where otherwise there would have
been no justice. Yet outwardly he cursed himself for a lawbreaker. And he loved life. He loved
the stars silently glowing down at him tonight. He loved even the gray, lifeless rock, which
recalled to his imaginative genius the terrific and interesting life that had once existed--he
loved the ghostly majesty of the grave-like pinnacle that rose above him, and beyond that he
loved all the world.

This is an atom: 
But most of all, more than his own life or all that a thousand lives might hold for him, he
loved the violet-eyed girl who had come into his life from the desolation and unhappiness of
Jed Hawkins' cabin.

This is an atom: 
Forgetting the law, forgetting all but her, he went at last into the dungeon-like gloom between
the rocks, and after Peter had wallowed himself a bed in the carpet of sand they fell asleep.

This is an atom: 
They awoke with the dawn. But for three days thereafter they went forth only at night, and
for three days did not show themselves above the barricade of rocks. The Stew-Kettle was what
Jolly Roger had called it, and when the sun was straight above, or descending with the last
half of the day, the name fitted.

This is an atom: 
It was a hot place, so hot that at a distance its piled-up masses of white rock seemed to simmer
and broil in the blazing heat of the July sun. Neither man nor beast would look into the heart
of it, Jolly Roger had assured Peter, unless the one was half-witted and the other a fool.
Looking at it from the meadowy green plain that lay between the Ridge and the forest their
temporary retreat was anything but a temptation to the eye. Something had happened there a
few thousand centuries before, and in a moment of evident spleen and vexation the earth had
vomited up that pile of rock debris, and Jolly Roger good humoredly told himself and Peter
that it was an act of Providence especially intended for them, though planned and erupted some
years before they were born.

This is an atom: 
The third afternoon of their hiding, Jolly Roger decided upon action.

This is an atom: 
This afternoon all of the caloric guns of an unclouded sun had seemed to concentrate themselves
on the gigantic rock-pile. Though it was now almost sunset, a swirling and dizzying incandescence
still hovered about it. The huge masses of stone were like baked things to the touch of hand
and foot, and one breathed a smoldering air in between their gray and white walls.

This is an atom: 
Thus forbidding looked the Stew-Kettle, when viewed from the plain. But from the top-most crag
of the mass, which rose a hundred feet high at the end of the Ridge, one might find his reward
for a blistering climb. On all sides, a paradise of green and yellow and gold, stretched the
vast wilderness, studded with shimmering lakes that gleamed here and there from out of their
rich dark frames of spruce and cedar and balsam. And half way between the edge of the plain
and this highest pinnacle of rock, utterly hidden from the eyes of both man and beast, nestled
the hiding place which Jolly Roger and Peter had found.

This is an atom: 
It was a cool and cavernous spot, in spite of the Sahara-like heat of the great pile. In the
very heart of it two gigantic masses of rock had put their shoulders together, like Gog and
Magog, so that under their ten thousand tons of weight was a crypt-like tunnel as high as a
man's head, into which the light and the glare of the sun never came.

This is an atom: 
Peter, now that he had grown accustomed to the deadness of it, liked this change from Indian
Tom's cabin. He liked his wallow of soft sand during the day, and he liked still more the aloneness
and the aloofness of their ramparted stronghold when the cool of evening came. He did not,
of course, understand just what their escape from Cassidy had meant, but instinct was shrewdly
at work within him, and no wolf could have guarded the place more carefully than he. And he
had all creation in mind when he guarded the rock-pile.

This is an atom: 
All but Nada. Many times he whimpered for her, just as the great call for her was in Jolly
Roger's own heart. And on this third afternoon, as the hot July sun dipped half way to the
western forests, both Peter and his master were looking yearningly, and with the same thought,
toward the east, where over the back-bone of Cragg's Ridge Jed Hawkins' cabin lay.

This is an atom: 
"We'll let her know tonight," Roger McKay said at last, with something very slow and deliberate
in his voice. "We'll take the chance--and let her know."

This is an atom: 
Peter's bristling Airedale whiskers, standing out like a bunch of broom splints about his face,
quivered sympathetically, and he thumped his tail in the sand. He was an artful hypocrite,
was Peter, because he always looked as if he understood, whether he did or not. And Jolly Roger,
staring at the gray rock-backs outside their tunnel door, went on.

This is an atom: 
"We must play square with her, Pied-Bot, and it's a crime worse than murder not to let her
know the truth. If she wasn't a kid, Peter! But she's that--just a kid--the sweetest, purest
thing God A'mighty ever made, and it isn't fair to live this lie any longer, no matter how
we love her. And we do love her, Peter."

This is an atom: 
Peter lay very quiet, watching the strange gray look that had settled in Jolly Roger's face.

This is an atom: 
"I've got to tell her that I'm a damned highwayman," he added, in a moment. "And she won't
understand, Peter. She can't. But I'm going to do it. I'm going to tell her--today. And then--I
think we'll be hittin' north pretty soon, Pied-Bot. If it wasn't for Jed Hawkins--" He rose
up out of the sand, his hands clenched.

This is an atom: 
"We ought to kill Jed Hawkins before we go. It would be safer for her," he finished.

This is an atom: 
He went out, forgetting Peter, and climbed a rock-splintered path until he stood on the knob
of a mighty boulder, looking off into the northern wilderness. Off there, a hundred, five hundred,
a thousand miles--was home. It was ALL his home, from Hudson's Bay to the Rockies, from the
Height of Land to the Arctic plains, and in it he had lived the thrill of life according to
his own peculiar code. He knew that he had loved life as few had ever loved it. He had worshipped
the sun and the moon and the stars. The world had been a glorious place in which to live, in
spite of its ceaseless peril for him.

This is an atom: 
But there was nothing of cheer left in his heart now as he stood in the blaze of the setting
sun. Paradise had come to him for a little while, and because of it he had lived a lie. He
had not told Jed Hawkins' foster-girl that he was an outlaw, and that he had come to the edge
of civilization because he thought it was the last place the Royal Mounted would look for him.
When he went to her this evening it would probably be for the last time. He would tell her
the truth. He would tell her the police were after him from one end of the Canadian northland
to the other. And that same night, with Peter, he would hit the trail for the Barren Lands,
a thousand miles away. He was sure of himself now--sure--even as the dark wall of the forest
across the plain faded out, and gave place to a pale, girlish face with eyes blue as flowers,
and brown curls filled with the lustre of the sun--a face that had taken the place of mother,
sister and God deep down in his soul. Yes, he was sure of himself--even with that face rising
lo give battle to his last great test of honor. He was an outlaw, and the police wanted him, but--

This is an atom: 
Peter was troubled by the grimness that settled in his master's face. They waited for dusk,
and when deep shadows had gathered in the valley McKay led the way out of the rock-pile.

This is an atom: 
An hour later they came cautiously through the darkness that lay between the broken shoulders
of Cragg's Ridge. There was a light in the cabin, but Nada's window was dark. Peter crouched
down under the warning pressure of McKay's hand.

This is an atom: 
"I'll go on alone," he said. "You stay here."

This is an atom: 
It seemed a long time that he waited in the darkness. He could not hear the low tap, tap, tap
of his master's fingers against the glass of Nada's darkened window. And Jolly Roger, in response
to that signal-tapping, heard nothing from within, except a monotone of voice that came from
the outer room. For half an hour he waited, repeating the signals at intervals. At last a door
opened, and Nada stood silhouetted against the light of the room beyond.

This is an atom: 
McKay tapped again, very lightly, and the door closed quickly behind the girl. In a moment
she was at the window, which was raised a little from the bottom.

This is an atom: 
"Mister--Roger--" she whispered. "Is it--YOU?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes," he said, finding a little hand in the darkness. "It's me."

This is an atom: 
The hand was cold, and its fingers clung tightly to his, as if the girl was frightened. Peter,
restless with waiting, had come up quietly in the dark, and he heard the low, trembling whisper
of Nada's voice at the window. There was something in the note of it, and in the caution of
Jolly Roger's reply, that held him stiff and attentive, his ears wide-open for approaching
sound. For several minutes he stood thus, and then the whispering voices at the window ceased
and he heard his master retreating very quietly through the night. When Jolly Roger spoke to
him, back under the broken shoulder of the ridge, he did not know that Peter had stood near
the window.

This is an atom: 
McKay stood looking back at the pale glow of light in the cabin.

This is an atom: 
"Something happened there tonight--something she wouldn't tell me about," he said, speaking
half to Peter and half to himself. "I could FEEL it. I wish I could have seen her face."

This is an atom: 
He set out over the plain; and then, as if remembering that he must explain the matter to Peter,
he said:

This is an atom: 
"She can't get out tonight, Pied-Bot, but she'll come to us in the jackpines tomorrow afternoon.
We'll have to wait"

This is an atom: 
He tried to say the thing cheerfully, but between this night and tomorrow afternoon seemed
an interminable time, now that he was determined to make a clean breast of his affairs to Nada,
and leave the country. Most of that night he walked in the coolness of the moonlit plain, and
for a long time he sat amid the flower- scented shadows of the trysting-place in the heart
of the jackpine clump, where Nada had a hidden place all her own. It was here that Peter discovered
something which Jolly Roger could not see in the deep shadows, a bundle warm and soft and sweet
with the presence of Nada herself. It was hidden under a clump of young banksians, very carefully
hidden, and tucked about with grass and evergreen boughs. When McKay left the jackpines he
wondered why it was that Peter showed no inclination to follow him until he was urged.

This is an atom: 
They did not return to the Stew-Kettle until dawn, and most of that day Jolly Roger spent in
sleep between the two big rocks. It was late afternoon when they made their last meal. In this
farewell hour McKay climbed up close to the pinnacle, where he smoked his pipe and measured
the shadows of the declining sun until it was time to leave for the jackpines.

This is an atom: 
Retracing his steps to the hiding place under Gog and Magog he looked for Peter. But Peter's
sand-wallow was empty, and Peter was gone.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER VII

This is an atom: 
Peter was on his way to the mystery of the bundle he had found in the jackpines.

This is an atom: 
At the foot of the ridge, where the green plain fought with the blighting edge of the Stew-Kettle,
he stood for many minutes before he started east-ward. With keen eyes gleaming behind his mop
of scraggly face-bristles he critically surveyed both land and air, and then, with the slight
limp in his gait which would always remain as a mark of Jed Hawkins' brutality, he trotted
deliberately in the direction of the whiskey-runner's cabin home.

This is an atom: 
A bitter memory of Jed Hawkins flattened his ears when he came near the rock-cluttered coulee
in which he had fought for Nada, and had suffered his broken bones, and today--even as he obeyed
the instinctive caution to stop and listen--Jed Hawkins himself came out of the mouth of the
coulee, bearing a brown jug in one hand and a thick cudgel in the other. His one wicked eye
gleamed in the waning sun. His lean and scraggly face was alight with a sinister exultation
as he paused for a moment close to the rock behind which Peter was hidden, and Peter's fangs
lay bare and his body trembled while the man stood there. Then he moved on, and Peter did not
stir, but waited until the jug and the cudgel and the man were out of sight.

This is an atom: 
Low under his breath he was snarling when he went on. Hatred, for a moment, had flamed hot
in his soul. Then he turned, and buried himself in a clump of balsams that reached out into
the plain, and a few moments later came to the edge of a tiny meadow in the heart of them,
where a warbler was bursting its throat in evening-song.

This is an atom: 
Around the edge of the meadow Peter circled, his feet deep in buttercups and red fire-flowers,
and crushing softly ripe strawberries that grew in scarlet profusion in the open, until he
came to a screen of young jackpines, and through these he quietly and apologetically nosed
his way. Then he stood wagging his tail, with Nada sitting on the grass half a dozen steps
from him, wiping the strawberry stain from her finger-tips. And the stain was on her red lips,
and a bit of it against the flush of her cheek, as she gave a little cry of gladness and greeting
to Peter. Her eyes flashed beyond him, and every drop of blood in her slim, beautiful little
body seemed to be throbbing with an excitement new to Peter as she looked for Jolly Roger.

This is an atom: 
Peter went to her, and dropped down, with his head in her lap, and looking up through his bushy
eye-brows he saw a livid bruise just under the ripples of her brown hair, where there had been
no mark yesterday, or the day before. Nada's hands drew him closer, until he was half in her
lap, and she bent her face down to him, so that her thick, shining hair fell all about him.
Peter loved her hair, almost as much as Jolly Roger loved it, and he closed his eyes and drew
a deep breath of content as the smothering sweetness of it shut out the sunlight from him.

This is an atom: 
"Peter," she whispered, "I'm almost scared to have him come today. I've promised him. You remember--I
promised to tell him if Jed Hawkins struck me again. And he has! He made that mark, and if
Jolly Roger knows it he'll kill him. I've got to lie--lie--"

This is an atom: 
Peter wriggled, to show his interest, and his hard tail thumped the ground. For a space Nada
said nothing more, and he could hear and feel the beating of her heart close down against him.
Then she raised her head, and looked in the direction from which she would first hear Jolly
Roger as he came through the young jackpines. Peter, with his eyes half closed in a vast contentment,
did not see or sense the change in her today--that her blue eyes were brighter, her cheeks
flushed, and in her body a strange and subdued throbbing that had never been there before.
Not even to Peter did she whisper her secret, but waited and listened for Jolly Roger, and
when at last she heard him and he came through the screen of jackpines, the color in her cheeks
was like the stain of strawberries crimsoning her finger-tips. In an instant, looking down
upon her, Jolly Roger saw what Peter had not discovered, and he stopped in his tracks, his
heart thumping like a hammer inside him. Never, even in his dreams, had the girl looked lovelier
than she did now, and never had her eyes met his eyes as they met them today, and never had
her red lips said as much to him, without uttering a word. In the same instant he saw the livid
bruise, half hidden under her hair--and then he saw a big bundle behind her, partly screened
by a dwarfed banksian. After that his eyes went back to the bruise.

This is an atom: 
"Jed Hawkins didn't do it," said Nada, knowing what was in his mind. "It was Jed's woman. And
you can't kill her!" she added a little defiantly.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger caught the choking throb in her throat, and he knew she was lying. But Nada thrust
Peter from her lap, and stood up, and she seemed taller and more like a woman than ever before
in her life as she faced Jolly Roger there in the tiny open, with violets and buttercups and
red strawberries in the soft grass under their feet. And behind them, and very near, a rival
to the warbler in the meadow began singing. But Nada did not hear. The color had rushed hot
into her cheeks at first, but now it was fading out as swiftly, and her hands trembled, clasped
in front of her. But the blue in her eyes was as steady as the blue in the sky as she looked
at Jolly Roger.

This is an atom: 
"I'm not going back to Jed Hawkins' any more, Mister Roger," she said.

This is an atom: 
A soft breath of wind lifted the tress of hair from her forehead, revealing more clearly the
mark of Jed Hawkins' brutality, and Nada saw gathering in Jolly Roger's eyes that cold, steely
glitter which always frightened her when it came. His hands clenched, and when she reached
out and touched his arm the flesh of it was as hard as white birch. Even in her fear there
was glory in the thought that at a word from her he would kill the man who had struck her.
Her fingers crept up his arm, timidly, and the blue in her eyes darkened, and there was a pleading
tremble in the curve of her lips as she looked straight at him.

This is an atom: 
"I'm not going back," she repeated.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger, looking beyond her, saw the significance of the bundle. His eyes met her steady
gaze again, and his heart seemed to swell in his chest, and choke him. He tried to let his
tense muscles relax. He tried to smile. He struggled to bring up the courage which would make
possible the confession he had to make. And Peter, sitting on his haunches in a patch of violets,
watched them both, wondering what was going to happen between these two.

This is an atom: 
"Where are you going?" Jolly Roger asked.

This is an atom: 
Nada's fingers had crept almost to his shoulder. They were twisting at his flannel shirt nervously,
but not for the tenth part of a second did she drop her eyes, and that strange, wonderful something
which he saw looking at him so clearly out of her soul brought the truth to Jolly Roger, before
she had spoken.

This is an atom: 
"I'm goin' with you and Peter."

This is an atom: 
The low cry that came from Jolly Roger was almost a sob as he stepped back from her. He looked
away from her--at Peter. But her pale face, her parted red lips, her wide-open, wonderful eyes,
her radiant hair stirred by the wind--came between them. She was no longer the little girl--"past
seventeen, goin' on eighteen." To Jolly Roger she was all that the world held of glorious womanhood.

This is an atom: 
"But--you can't!" he cried desperately. "I've come to tell you things, Nada. I'm not fit. I'm
not what you think I am. I've been livin' a lie--"

This is an atom: 
He hesitated, and then lashed himself on to the truth.

This is an atom: 
"You'll hate me when I tell you, Nada. You think Jed Hawkins is bad. But the law thinks I'm
worse. The police want me. They've wanted me for years. That's why I came down here, and hid
over in Indian Tom's cabin--near where I first met you. I thought they wouldn't find me away
down here, but they did. That's why Peter and I moved over to the big rock-pile at the end
of the Ridge. I'm--an outlaw. I've done a lot of bad things--in the eyes of the law, and I'll
probably die with a bullet in me, or in jail. I'm sorry, but that don't help. I'd give my life
to be able to tell you what's in my heart. But I can't. It wouldn't be square."

This is an atom: 
He wondered why no change came into the steady blue of her eyes as he went on with the truth.
The pallor was gone from her cheeks. Her lips seemed redder, and what he was saying did not
seem to startle her, or frighten her.

This is an atom: 
"Don't you understand, Nada?" he cried. "I'm bad. The police want me. I'm a fugitive--always
running away, always hiding--an outlaw--"

This is an atom: 
She nodded.

This is an atom: 
"I know it, Mister Roger," she said quietly. "I heard you tell Peter that a long time ago.
And Mister Cassidy was at our place the day after you and Peter ran away from Indian Tom's
cabin, and I showed him the way to Father John's, and he told me a lot about you, and he told
Father John a lot more, and it made me awful proud of you, Mister Roger--and I want to go with
you and Peter!"

This is an atom: 
"Proud!" gasped Jolly Roger. "Proud, of ME--"

This is an atom: 
She nodded again.

This is an atom: 
"Mister Cassidy--the policeman--he used just the word you used a minute ago. He said you was
square, even when you robbed other people. He said he had to get you in jail if he could, but
he hoped he never would. He said he'd like to have a man like you for a brother. And Peter
loves you. And I--"

This is an atom: 
The color came into her white face.

This is an atom: 
"I'm goin' with you and Peter," she finished.

This is an atom: 
Something came to relieve the tenseness of the moment for Jolly Roger. Peter, nosing in a thick
patch of bunch-grass, put out a huge snowshoe rabbit, and the two crashed in a startling avalanche
through the young jackpines, Peter's still puppyish voice yelling in a high staccato as he
pursued. Jolly Roger turned from Nada, and stared where they had gone. But he was seeing nothing.
He knew the hour of his mightiest fight had come. In the reckless years of his adventuring
he had more than once faced death. He had starved. He had frozen. He had run the deadliest
gantlets of the elements, of beast, and of man. Yet was the strife in him now the greatest
of all his life. His heart thumped. His brain was swirling in a vague and chaotic struggle
for the mastery of things, and as he fought with himself--his unseeing eyes fixed on the spot
where Peter and the snowshoe rabbit had disappeared--he heard Nada's voice behind him, saying
again that she was going with him and Peter. In those seconds he felt himself giving way, and
the determined action he had built up for himself began to crumble like sand. He had made his
confession and in spite of it this young girl he worshipped--sweeter and purer than the flowers
of the forest--was urging herself upon him! And his soul cried out for him to turn about, and
open his arms to her, and gather her into them for as long as God saw fit to give him freedom
and life.

This is an atom: 
But still he fought against that mighty urge, dragging reason and right back fragment by fragment,
while Nada stood behind him, her wide-open, childishly beautiful eyes beginning to comprehend
the struggle that was disrupting the heart of this man who was an outlaw--and her god among
men. And when Jolly Roger turned, his face had aged to the grayness of stone, and his eyes
were dull, and there was a terribly dead note in his voice.

This is an atom: 
"You can't go with us," he said. "You can't. It's wrong--all wrong. I couldn't take care of
you in jail, and some day--that's where I'll be."

This is an atom: 
More than once when she had spoken of Jed Hawkins he had seen the swift flash of lightning
come into the violet of her eyes. And it came now, and her little hands grew tight at her sides,
and bright spots burned in her cheeks.

This is an atom: 
"You won't!" she cried. "I won't let you go to jail. I'll fight for you--if you'll let me go
with you and Peter!"

This is an atom: 
She came a step nearer.

This is an atom: 
"And if I stay here Jed Hawkins is goin' to sell me to a tie- cutter over on the railroad.
That's what it is--sellin' me. I ain't--I mean I haven't--told you before, because I was afraid
of what you'd do. But it's goin' to happen, unless you let me go with you and Peter. Oh, Mister
Roger--Mister Jolly Roger--"

This is an atom: 
Her fingers crept up his arms. They reached his shoulders, and her blue eyes, and her red lips,
and the woman's soul in her girl-body were so close to him he could feel their sweetness and
thrill, and then he saw a slow-gathering mist, and tears--

This is an atom: 
"I'll go wherever you go," she was whispering, "And we'll hide where they won't ever find us,
and I'll be happy, so happy, Mister Roger--and if you won't take me I want to die. Oh--"

This is an atom: 
She was crying, with her head on his breast, and her slim, half bare arms around his neck,
and Jolly Roger listened like a miser to the choking words that came with her sobs. And where
there had been tumult and indecision in his heart there came suddenly the clearness of sunshine
and joy, and with it the happiness of a new and mighty possession as his arms closed about
her, and he turned her face up, so that for the first time he kissed the soft red lips that
for some inscrutable reason the God of all things had given into his keeping this day.

This is an atom: 
And then, holding her close, with her arms still tighter about his neck, he cried softly,

This is an atom: 
"I'm goin' to take you, little girl. You're goin' with Peter and me, for ever--and ever. And
we'll go--tonight!"

This is an atom: 
When Peter came back, just in the last sunset glow of the evening, he found his master alone
in the bit of jackpine opening, and Nada was swiftly crossing the larger meadow that lay between
them and the break in Cragg's Ridge, beyond which was Jed Hawkins' cabin. It was not the same
Jolly Roger whom he had left half an hour before. It was not the man of the hiding-place in
the rock-pile. Jolly Roger McKay, standing there in the last soft glow of the day, was no longer
the fugitive and the outcast. He stood with silent lips, yet his soul was crying out its gratitude
to all that God of Life which breathed its sweetness of summer evening about him. He was the
First Possessor of the earth. In that hour, that moment, he would not have sold his place for
all the happiness of all the remaining people in the world. He cried out aloud, and Peter,
squatted at his feet with his red tongue lolling out, listened to him.

This is an atom: 
"She is mine, mine, mine," he was saying, and he repeated that word over and over, until Peter
quirked his ears, and wondered what it meant. And then, seeing Peter, Jolly Roger laughed softly,
and bent over him, with a look of awe and wonderment mingling with the happiness in his face.

This is an atom: 
"She's mine--ours," he cried boyishly. "God A'mighty took a hand, Pied-Bot, and she's going
with us! We're going tonight, when the moon comes up. And Peter--Peter--we're going straight
to the Missioner's, and he'll marry us, and then we'll hit for a place where no one in the
world will ever find us. The law may want us, Pied-Bot, but God--this God all around--is good
to us. And we'll try and pay Him back. We will, Peter!"

This is an atom: 
He straightened himself, and faced the west. Then he picked up the bundle Nada had brought,
and dived through the jackpines, with Peter at his heels. Swiftly they moved through the shadowing
dusk of the plain, and came at last to the Stew-Kettle, and to their hiding-place under the
shoulders of Gog and Magog. There was still a faint twilight in the tunnel, and in this twilight
Jolly Roger McKay packed his possessions; and then, with fingers that trembled as if they were
committing a sacrilege, he drew Nada's few treasures from her bundle and placed them tenderly
with his own. And all the time Peter heard him saying things under his breath, so softly that
it was like the whispered drone of song.

This is an atom: 
In darkness they went down through the rocks to the plain, and half an hour later they came
to the break in the Ridge, and went through it, and stopped in the black shadow of a great
rock, with Jed Hawkins' cabin half a rifle-shot away. Here Nada was to come to them with the
first rising of the moon.

This is an atom: 
It was very still all about, and Peter sensed a significance in the silence, and lay very quietly
watching the light in the cabin, and the shadowy form of his master. Also he knew that somewhere
in the distance a storm was gathering. The breath of it was in the air, though the sky was
clear of cloud overhead, except for the haze of a gray and ghostly mist that lay between them
and the yellow stars. Jolly Roger counted the seconds between then and moonrise. It seemed
hours before the golden rim of it rose in the east. Shadows grew swiftly after that. Grotesque
things took shape. The rock-caps of the ridge began to light up, like timid signal-fires. Black
spruce and balsam and cedar glistened as if bathed in enamel. And the moon came on, and mellow
floods of light played in the valleys and plains, and danced over the forest-tops, and in voice-less
and soundless miracle called upon all living things to look upon the glory of God. In his soul
Jolly Roger McKay felt the urge and the call of that voiceless Master Power, and through his
lips came an unconscious whisper of prayer--of gratitude.

This is an atom: 
And he watched the light in Jed Hawkins' cabin, and strained his ears to hear a sound of footsteps
coming through the moonlight.

This is an atom: 
But there was no change. The light did not move. A door did not open or close. There was no
sound, except the growing whisper of the wind, the call of a night bird, and the howl of the
old gray wolf that always cried out to the moon from the tangled depths of Indian Tom's swamp.

This is an atom: 
A thrill of nervousness swept through Jolly Roger. He waited half an hour, three-quarters,
an hour--after the moon had risen. And Nada did not come. The nervousness grew in him, and
he moved out into the moon-glow, and slowly and watchfully followed the edge of the rock-shadows
until he came to the fringe of cedars and spruce behind the cabin. Peter, careful not to snap
a twig under his paws, followed closely. They came to the cabin, and there--very distinctly--Jolly
Roger McKay heard the low moaning of a voice.

This is an atom: 
He edged his way to the window, and looked in.

This is an atom: 
Crouched beside a chair in the middle of the floor was Jed Hawkins's woman. She was moaning,
and her thin body was rocking back and forth, and with her hands clasped at her bony breast
she was staring at the open door. With a shock Jolly Roger saw that except for the strangely
crying old woman the cabin was empty. Sudden fear chilled his blood--a fear that scarcely took
form before he was at the door, and in the cabin. The woman's eyes were red and wild as she
stared at him, and she stopped her moaning, and her hands unclasped. Jolly Roger went nearer
and bent over her and shivered at the half-mad terror he saw in her face.

This is an atom: 
"Where is Nada?" he demanded. "Tell me--where is she?"

This is an atom: 
"Gone, gone, gone," crooned the woman, clutching her hands at her breast again. "Jed has taken
her--taken her to Mooney's shack, over near the railroad. Oh, my God!--I tried to keep her,
but I couldn't. He dragged her away, and tonight he's sellin' her to Mooney--the devil--the
black brute--the tie-cutter--"

This is an atom: 
She choked, and began rocking herself back and forth, and the moaning came again from her thin
lips. Fiercely McKay gripped her by the shoulder.

This is an atom: 
"Mooney's shack--where?" he cried. "Quick! Tell me!"

This is an atom: 
"A thousand--a thousand--he's givin' a thousand dollars to git her in the shack--alone," she
cried in a dull, sing-song voice. "The road out there leads straight to it. Near the railroad.
A mile. Two miles. I tried to keep him from doin' it, but I couldn't--I couldn't--"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger heard no more. He was out of the door, and running across the open, with Peter
racing close behind him. They struck the road, and Jolly Roger swung into it, and continued
to run until the breath was out of his lungs. And all that time the things Nada had told him
about Jed Hawkins and the tie-cutter were rushing madly through his brain. An hour or two ago,
when the words had come from her lips in the jackpine thicket, he had believed that Nada was
frightened, that a distorted fear possessed her, that such a thing as she had half confessed
to him was too monstrous to happen. And now he cried out aloud, a groaning, terrible cry as
he went on. Hawkins and Nada had reached Mooney's shack long before this, a shack buried deep
in the wilderness, a shack from which no cries could be heard--

This is an atom: 
Peter, trotting behind, whined at what he heard in Jolly Roger McKay's panting voice. And the
moon shone on them as they staggered and ran, and here and there dark clouds were racing past
the face of it, and the slumberous whisper of storm grew nearer in the air. And then came the
time when one of the dark clouds rode under the moon and the two ran on in darkness. The cloud
passed, and the moon flooded the road again with light--and suddenly Jolly Roger stopped in
his tracks, and his heart almost broke in the strain of that moment.

This is an atom: 
Ahead of them, staggering toward them, sobbing as she came, was Nada. Jolly Roger's blazing
eyes saw everything in that vivid light of the moon. Her hair was tangled and twisted about
her shoulders and over her breast. One arm was bare where the sleeve had been torn away, and
her girlish breast gleamed white where her waist had been stripped half from her body. And
then she saw Jolly Roger in the trail, with wide-open, reaching arms, and with a cry such as
Peter had never heard come from her lips before she ran into them, and held up her face to
him in the yellow moon-light. In her eyes--great, tearless, burning pools--he saw the tragedy
and yet it was only that, and not horror, not despair, NOT the other thing. His arms closed
crushingly about her. Her slim body seemed to become a part of him. Her hot lips reached up
and clung to his.

This is an atom: 
And then,

This is an atom: 
"Did--he get you--to--Mooney's shack--" He felt her body stiffen against him.

This is an atom: 
"No," she panted. "I fought--every inch. He dragged me, and hit me, and tore my clothes--but
I fought. And up there--in the trail --he turned his back for a moment, when he thought I was
done, and I hit him with a club. And he's there, now, on his back--"

This is an atom: 
She did not finish. Jolly Roger thrust her out from him, arm's length. A cloud under the moon
hid his face. But his voice was low, and terrible.

This is an atom: 
"Nada, go to the Missioner's as fast as you can," he said, fighting to speak coolly. "Take
Peter--and go. You will make it before the storm breaks. I am going back to have a few words
with Jed Hawkins--alone. Then I will join you, and the Missioner will marry us--"

This is an atom: 
The cloud was gone, and he saw joy and radiance in her face. Fear had disappeared. Her eyes
were luminous with the golden glow of the night. Her red lips were parted, entreating him with
the lure of their purity and love, and for a moment he held her close in his arms again, kissing
her as he might have kissed an angel, while her little hands stroked his face, and she laughed
softly and strangely in her happiness--the wonder of a woman's soul rising swiftly out of the
sweetness of her girlhood.

This is an atom: 
And then Jolly Roger set her firmly in the direction she was to go.

This is an atom: 
"Hurry, little girl," he said. "Hurry--before the storm breaks!"

This is an atom: 
She went, calling Peter softly, and Jolly Roger strode down the trail, not once looking back,
and bent only upon the vengeance he would this night wreak upon the two lowest brutes in creation.
Never before had he felt the desire to kill. But he felt that desire now. Before the night
was much older he would do unto Hawkins and Mooney as Hawkins had done unto Peter. He would
leave them alive, but broken and crippled and forever punished.

This is an atom: 
And then he stumbled over something in another darkening of the moon. He stopped, and the light
came again, and he looked down into the upturned face of Jed Hawkins. It was a distorted and
twisted face, and its one eye was closed. The body did not move. And close to the head was
the club which Nada had used.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger laughed grimly. Fate was kind to him in making a half of his work so easy. But
he wanted Hawkins to rouse himself first. Roughly he stirred him with the toe of his boot.

This is an atom: 
"Wake up, you fiend," he said. "I'm going to break your bones, your arms, your legs, just as
you broke Peter--and that poor old woman back in the cabin. Wake up!"

This is an atom: 
Jed Hawkins made no stir. He was strangely limp. For many seconds Jolly Roger stood looking
down at him, his eyes growing wider, more staring. Darkness came again. It was an inky blackness
this time, like a blotter over the world. Low thunder came out of the west. The tree-tops whispered
in a frightened sort of way. And Jolly Roger could hear his heart beating. He dropped upon
his knees, and his hands moved over Jed Hawkins. For a space not even Peter could have heard
his movement or his breath.

This is an atom: 
In the ebon darkness he rose to his feet, and the night-- lifelessly still for a moment--heard
the one choking word that came from his lips.

This is an atom: 
"Dead!"

This is an atom: 
And there he stood, the heat of his rage changing to an icy chill, his heart dragging within
him like a chunk of lead, his breath choking in his throat. Jed Hawkins was dead! He was growing
stiff there in the black trail. He had ceased to breathe. He had ceased to be a part of life.
And the wind, rising a little with the coming of storm, seemed to whisper and chortle over
the horrible thing, and the lone wolf in Indian Tom's swamp howled weirdly, as if he smelled death.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger McKay's finger-nails dug into the flesh of his palms. If he had killed the human
viper at his feet, if his own hands had meted out his punishment, he would not have felt the
clammy terror that wrapped itself about him in the darkness. But he had come too late. It was
Nada who had killed Jed Hawkins. Nada, with her woman's soul just born in all its glory, had
taken the life of her foster-father. And Canadian law knew no excuse for killing.

This is an atom: 
The chill crept to his finger-tips, and unconsciously, in a childish sort of way, he sobbed
between his clenched teeth. The thunder was rolling nearer, and it was like a threatening voice,
a deep-toned booming of a thing inevitable and terrible. He felt the air shivering about him,
and suddenly something moved softly against his foot, and he heard a questioning whine. It
was Peter-- come back to him in this hour when he needed a living thing to give him courage.
With a groan he dropped on his knees again, and clutched his hands about Peter.

This is an atom: 
"My God," he breathed huskily. "Peter, she's killed him. And she mustn't know. We mustn't let
anyone know--"

This is an atom: 
And there he stopped, and Peter felt him growing rigid as stone, and for many moments Jolly
Roger's body seemed as lifeless as that of the man who lay with up-turned face in the trail.
Then he fumbled in a pocket and found a pencil and an old envelope. And on the envelope, with
the darkness so thick he could not see his hand, he scribbled, "I killed Jed Hawkins," and
after that he signed his name firmly and fully--"Jolly Roger McKay."

This is an atom: 
Then he tucked the envelope under Jed Hawkins' body, where the rain could not get at it. And
after that, to make the evidence complete, he covered the dead man's face with his coat.

This is an atom: 
"We've got to do it, Peter," he said, and there was a new note in his voice as he stood up
on his feet again. "We've got to do it-- for her. We'll--tell her we caught Jed Hawkins in
the trail and killed him."

This is an atom: 
Caution, cleverness, his old mental skill returned to him. He dragged the boot-legger's body
to a new spot, turned it face down, threw the club away, and kicked up the earth with his boots
to give signs of a struggle.

This is an atom: 
The note in his voice was triumph--triumph in spite of its heartbreak--as he turned back over
the trail after he had finished, and spoke to Peter.

This is an atom: 
"We may have done some things we oughtn't to, Pied-Bot," he said, "but tonight I sort o' think
we've tried to make--restitution. And if they hang us, which they probably will some time,
I sort o' think it'll make us happy to know we've done it--for her. Eh, Pied-Bot?"

This is an atom: 
And the moon sailed out for a space, and shone on the dead whiteness of Jolly Roger's face.
And on the lips of that face was a strange, cold smile, a smile of mastery, of exaltation,
and the eyes were looking straight ahead--the eyes of a man who had made his sacrifice for
a thing more precious to him than his God.

This is an atom: 
Only now and then did the moon gleam through the slow-moving masses of black cloud when he
came to the edge of the Indian settlement clearing three miles away, where stood the cabin
of the Missioner. The storm had not broken, but seemed holding back its forces for one mighty
onslaught upon the world. The thunder was repressed, and the lightning held in leash, with
escaping flashes of it occasionally betraying the impending ambuscades of the sky.

This is an atom: 
The clearing itself was a blot of stygian darkness, with a yellow patch of light in the center
of it--the window of the Missioner's cabin. And Jolly Roger stood looking at it for a space,
as a carven thing of rock might have stared. His heart was dead. His soul crushed. His dream
broken. There remained only his brain, his mind made up, his worship for the girl--a love that
had changed from a thing of joy to a fire of agony within him. Straight ahead he looked, knowing
there was only one thing for him to do. And only one. There was no alternative. No hope. No
change of fortune that even the power of God might bring about. What lay ahead of him was inevitable.

This is an atom: 
After all, there is something unspeakable in the might and glory of dying for one's country--or
for a great love. And Jolly Roger McKay felt that strength as he strode through the blackness,
and knocked at the door, and went in to face Nada and the little old gray-haired Missioner
in the lampglow.

This is an atom: 
Swift as one of the flashes of lightning in the sky the anxiety and fear had gone out of Nada's
face, and in an instant it was flooded with the joy of his coming. She did not mark the strange
change in him, but went to him as she had gone to him in the trail, and Jolly Roger's arms
closed about her, but gently this time, and very tenderly, as he might have held a little child
he was afraid of hurting. Then she felt the chill of his lips as she pressed her own to them.
Startled, she looked up into his eyes. And as he had done in the trail, so now Jolly Roger
stood her away from him, and faced the Missioner. In a cold, hard voice he told what had happened
to Nada that evening, and of the barbarous effort Jed Hawkins had made to sell her to Mooney.
Then, from a pocket inside his shirt, he drew out a small, flat leather wallet, and thrust
it in the little Missioner's hand.

This is an atom: 
"There's close to a thousand dollars in that," he said. "It's mine. And I'm giving it to you--for
Nada. I want you to keep her, and care for her, and mebby some day--"

This is an atom: 
With both her hands Nada clutched his arm. Her eyes had widened. Swift pallor had driven the
color from her face, and a broken cry was in her voice.

This is an atom: 
"I'm goin' with you," she protested. "I'm goin' with you--and Peter!"

This is an atom: 
"You can't--now," he said. "I've got to go alone, Nada. I went back--and I killed Jed Hawkins."

This is an atom: 
Over the roof of the cabin rolled a crash of thunder. As the explosion of it rocked the floor
under their feet, Jolly Roger pointed to a door, and said,

This is an atom: 
"Father, if you will leave us alone--just a minute--"

This is an atom: 
White-faced, clutching the wallet, the little gray Missioner nodded, and went to the door,
and as he opened it and entered into the darkness of the other room he saw Jolly Roger McKay
open wide his arms, and the girl go into them. After that the storm broke. The rain descended
in a deluge upon the cabin roof. The black night was filled with the rumble and roar and the
hissing lightning-flare of pent-up elements suddenly freed of bondage. And in the darkness
and tumult the Missioner stood, a little gray man of tragedy, of deeply buried secrets, a man
of prayer and of faith in God--his heart whispering for guidance and mercy as he waited. The
minutes passed. Five. Ten. And then there came a louder roaring of the storm, shut off quickly,
and the little Missioner knew that a door was opened--and closed.

This is an atom: 
He lifted the latch, and looked out again into the lampglow. Huddled at the side of a chair
on the floor, her arms and face buried in the lustrous, disheveled mass of her shining hair--lay
Nada, and close beside her was Peter. He went to her. Tenderly he knelt down beside her. His
thin arm went about her, and as the storm raved and shrieked above them he tried to comfort
her--and spoke of God.

This is an atom: 
And through that storm, his head bowed, his heart gone, went Jolly Roger McKay--heading north.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER VIII

This is an atom: 
Peter, thrust back from the door through which through which his master had gone, listened
vainly for the sound of returning footsteps in the beat of rain and the crash of thunder outside.
A strange thing had burned itself into his soul, a thing that made his flesh quiver and set
hot fires running in his blood. As a dog sometimes senses the stealthy approach of death, so
he began to sense the tragedy of this night that had brought with it not only a chaos of blackness
and storm, but an anguish which roused an answering whimper in his throat as he turned toward Nada.

This is an atom: 
She was crumpled with her head in her arms, where she had flung herself with Jolly Roger's
last kiss of worship on her lips, and she was sobbing like a child with its heart broken. And
beside her knelt the old gray Missioner, man of God in the deep forest, who stroked her hair
with his thin hand, whispering courage and consolation to her, with the wind and rain beating
overhead and the windows rattling to the accompaniment of ghostly voices that shrieked and
wailed in the tree-tops outside.

This is an atom: 
Peter trembled at the sobbing, but his heart and his desire were with the man who had gone.
In his unreasoning little soul it was Jed Hawkins who was rattling the windows with his unseen
hands and who was pounding at the door with the wind, and who was filling the black night with
its menace and fear. He hated this man, who lay back in the trail with his lifeless face turned
up to the deluge that poured out of the sky. And he was afraid of the man, even as he hated
him, and he believed that Nada was afraid of him, and that because of her fear she was crying
there in the middle of the floor, with Father John patting her shoulder and stroking her hair,
and saying things to her which he could not understand. He wanted to go to her. He wanted to
feel himself close against her, as Nada had held him so often in those hours when she had unburdened
her grief and her unhappiness to him. But even stronger than this desire was the one to follow
his master.

This is an atom: 
He went to the door, and thrust his nose against the crack at the bottom of it. He felt the
fierceness of the wind fighting to break in, and the broken mist of it filled his nostrils.
But there came no scent of Jolly Roger McKay. For a moment he struggled at the crack with his
paws. Then he flopped himself down, his heart beating fast, and fixed his eyes inquiringly
on Nada and the Missioner.

This is an atom: 
His four and a half months of life in the big wilderness, and his weeks of constant comradeship
with Jolly Roger, had developed in him a brain that was older than his body. No process of
reasoning could impinge upon him the fact that his master was an outlaw, but with the swift
experiences of tragedy and hiding and never-ceasing caution had come instinctive processes
which told him almost as much as reason. He knew something was wrong tonight. It was in the
air. He breathed it. It thrilled in the crash of thunder, in the lightning fire, in the mighty
hands of the wind rocking the cabin and straining at the windows. And vaguely the knowledge
gripped him that the dead man back in the trail was responsible for it all, and that because
of this something that had happened his mistress was crying and his master was gone. And he
believed he should also have gone with Jolly Roger into the blackness and mystery of the storm,
to fight with him against the one creature in all the world he hated--the dead man who lay
back in the thickness of gloom between the forest walls.

This is an atom: 
And the Missioner was saying to Nada, in a quiet, calm voice out of which the tragedies of
years had burned all excitement and passion:

This is an atom: 
"God will forgive him, my child. In His mercy He will forgive Roger McKay, because he killed
Jed Hawkins to save YOU. But man will not forgive. The law has been hunting him because he
is an outlaw, and to outlawry he has added what the law will call murder. But God will not
look at it in that way. He will look into the heart of the man, the man who sacrificed himself--"

This is an atom: 
And then, fiercely, Nada struck up the Missioner's comforting hand, and Peter saw her young
face white as star-dust in the lampglow.

This is an atom: 
"I don't care what God thinks," she cried passionately. "God didn't do right today. Mister
Roger told me everything, that he was an outlaw, an' I oughtn't to marry him. But I didn't
care. I loved him. I could hide with him. An' we were coming to have you marry us tonight when
God let Jed Hawkins drag me away, to sell me to a man over on the railroad--an' it was God
who let Mister Roger go back and kill him. I tell you He didn't do right! He didn't--he didn't--because
Mister Roger brought me the first happiness I ever knew, an' I loved him, an' he loved me--an'
God was wicked to let him kill Jed Hawkins--"

This is an atom: 
Her voice cried out, a woman's soul broken in a girl's body, and Peter whimpered and watched
the Missioner as he raised Nada to her feet and went with her into his bedroom, where a few
minutes before he had lighted a lamp. And Peter crept in quietly after them, and when the Missioner
had gone and closed the door, leaving them alone in their tragedy, Nada seemed to see him for
the first time and slowly she reached out her arms.

This is an atom: 
"Peter!" she whispered. "Peter--Peter--"

This is an atom: 
In the minutes that followed, Peter could feel her heart beating. Clutched against her breast
he looked up at the white, beautiful face, the trembling throat, the wide-open blue eyes staring
at the one black window between them and the outside night. A lull had come in the storm. It
was quiet and ominous stillness, and the ticking of a clock, old and gray like the Missioner
himself, filled the room. And Nada, seated on the edge of Father John's bed, no longer looked
like the young girl of "seventeen goin' on eighteen." That afternoon, in the hidden jackpine
open, with its sweet-scented jasmines, its violets and its crimson strawberries under their
feet, the soul of a woman had taken possession of her body. In that hour the first happiness
of her life had come to her. She had heard Jolly Roger McKay tell her those things which she
already knew--that he was an outlaw, and that he was hiding down on the near-edge of civilization
because the Royal Mounted were after him farther north--and that he was not fit to love her,
and that it was a crime to let her love him. It was then the soul of the woman had come to
her in all its triumph. DOCTOR What does she now? Watch as they rub their hands! CHAMBER WOMEN
This is their usual gesture that they are doing as they wish their hands, and I've probably
seen that it is a quarter in a row did. LADY MACBETH There's still a spot. PHYSICIAN Horch ,
she speaks! I want to write down what she says to my memory afterward
that the supplement.

This is an atom: 
Fort LADY MACBETH, damned spot, away, I say! - One, two! Well, then it is time to do it .--
The hell is dark! - Fie, my husband, ugh, a soldier, and timid! What we have to fear who knows it
because no-one violence to our account must - But who would have thought that the old man
still so much blood is it? DOCTOR Hear Your well? LADY MACBETH The Than of Fife had a woman:
Where is she now? - How, to these hands never be clean - nothing more of it, my husband, nothing
more of it, you anything verdirbst with this ascension. PHYSICIAN Ei, ei! You have to know what
you should not! Chamber WOMAN has spoken her what she should not, that's certain. God knows
what she has experienced. LADY MACBETH still smell blood here, and all scents of Arabia would
not be this little hand made fragrant. Oh, oh, oh! DOCTOR What a sigh for the war! Your heart
is sorely charged.

This is an atom: 
CHAMBER WOMEN I do not want such a heart in the bosom bear, not for the king of the whole
body jewelry. PHYSICIAN Well, well! CHAMBER WOMEN God that it was good! DOCTOR This disease
is in addition to the areas of my art, but I have known people in the sleep umherwandelten
and devout, but died in her bed. LADY MACBETH Wash your hands, put on your night gown, look
not so pale - I tell you again Banquo is buried, he can from his
tomb do not come out.

This is an atom: 
PHYSICIAN Really? LADY MACBETH To bed, to bed! It is knocked to the gate. Come, come, come,
come, give me a hand! - What happened, you can not make ungeschehn. - To bed, to bed, to bed!
(You will anyway.) DOCTOR Is she now to bed?

This is an atom: 
CHAMBER WOMEN immediately. PHYSICIAN Man whispers bad. Unnatural deeds creating unnatural disruption;
The sick soul into deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.

This is an atom: 
Des Beichtgers you need even more than the physician .-- God forgive
us all!

This is an atom: 
Look after her; away what they can get hurt, and always have an eye on them - So, good night! The
sight gave me fright and Graun made. I think and not say nothing. CHAMBER WOMAN Well, sleep well!
(You go from.) SECOND SCENE (field, near Dunsinan) (It occurs with drums and flags Menteth,
Cathness , Angus, Lenox, soldiers). MENTETH The Army of England is approaching, led by Malcolm,
Siward His ohms and the good Macduff: Revenge Of glühn them, because their suffering herbes
probably attracted to the old man abgestorbnen grimme bloody struggle. ANGUS When Birnam Forest
Von nahn it from there, we take it well. CATHNESS Whether Donalbain when his brother is? LENOX
Certainly not, Lord, because I have a list of all the nobility. There is Siwards son, And
many a smooth young man who first examines the Mannheit. MENTETH And what does the tyrant? CATHNESS
The mächtge Dunsinan he fastened.

This is an atom: 
Toll says it some, but if you hate him less, indicating tapfre anger, but certainly ists, he
can state the wildly indignant not fasten the strap in order. ANGUS Now he feels secretly murder
on his hands sticky; Now punisheth his indignation hourly treason. He commanded, to act on
command, not love. Now he feels his dignity too far and loose, like the giant rock Appends
to dieb chen dwarf. MENTETH Is it any wonder when his tormented mind auffährt and shudders?
Must be feeling all that but damn self, because his soul is. CATHNESS ziehn we continue, as
service to dedicate when it calls Lehnspflicht; Let the healing of the sick state! With it,
we shed for the sake of the country, All our blood. LENOX So much that it betaut Rulers Blum,
drowned the giftge cabbage. To go to the train to Birnam. (They walk over.) THIRD STAGE
(Dunsinan, a room in the castle) (Macbeth occurs, the doctor who entourage.) MACBETH Bring
no more! Let all fliehn; Till Birnam forest anrückt on Dunsinan, Is fear me nothing. What's
the boy Malcolm? Gave him a woman? The Ghosts, All earthly acquainted Walters, prophesied this:
Be bold, Macbeth, no man of woman born, target what ever you wear. Always flees because your
wrong Than to England Lingenfelder soft! This heart and my spirit rulers daring Attenuates doubt
not, and should never fear the rain. (A servant appears.)

This is an atom: 
The devil burn you black, milk Bleicher rascal! How do you look to the geese? DIENER There are
ten thousand - MACBETH GAEN, villain? DIENER warrior Lord. MACBETH friction your face, the fear
to überröten, Weißlebriger dog. Then what for Krieger, Hansnarr? Get thee to the devil! Chalk
your cheeks to seduce all fear. Then what for Krieger, whey face? Service allows the army of
England! MACBETH way your face! (Servant from.) Seyton!

This is an atom: 
- I will be very bad, so I Seh - Seyton! Heda! - This jerk or cured for ever now gives me. I
lived long enough and my life fell into the drought, the withered leaves, And what that should
accompany old age, obey, love, honor, friends, comfort, then I may not appearance, but
instead curses, not loud but deep. Service and touch your mouth, like what the poor heart
would like to refuse me, And not wagts .-- Seyton! (Seyton comes.) SEYTON What orders,
rulers? MACBETH What's New? SEYTON Everything confirms what the rumor promulgated. MACBETH
I wants to fight, To me the meat is chopped from the bones. Give me my arms! SEYTON not yet
tuts not. MACBETH I put them on. More Reiter sends out durchstreift the country, who called
fear, will be hanged .-- Bring me the armor! What makes the sick, the doctor? DOCTOR Not
sick, both as by brief fantasy formations disturbed, deprived of the Ruh. MACBETH healing
them!

This is an atom: 
Can not devise a sick mind? Deep rooted suffering from memory dispersed? The Torment delete the
brain to write? And with a sweet antidote Oblivion Chest discard those giftgen Last, The heavy
heart depressed? DOCTOR Here, the patients themselves find the means. MACBETH The dogs your
art, I like them not .-- If the armor to me, since the rod ! - Seyton, Schick aus! - Doktor,
Than to leave me .-- Well, quick! - doctor, you could be my country Beschaun the water, his
sickness, and it to early kräftgen wellness net, I Will with thy praise awaken the echo that
reverberated far thy praise. - Route the strap!

This is an atom: 
- What Purganz, Rhubarb, Senna led well from the English? - Do you hear from them? DOCTOR Yes,
High King, your power armor war that we like to hear about it. MACBETH Bring me! - Not Death
and destruction are not challenging to me, Birnam Forest Come not forth after Dunsinan! ([He
goes from.] All except go to the doctor anyway.) DOCTOR War I Dunsinan with healing and
happiness, How would I ever return, no advantage. ( [All] ab.) FOURTH SCENE (field near
Dunsinan, a forest in [distance] sight) (It occurs with drums and flags Malcolm, old Siward,
his son, Macduff, Menteth, Cathness, Angus, Lenox, Rosse, soldiers.) MALCOLM cousins, the days, I
hope we are near, Where chambers are safe. MENTETH We do not doubt. SIWARD How is the forest
ahead of us? MENTETH Birnam forest. MALCOLM Each warrior from hau 'nen Zweig And it prior to
entry, so we hide the number of troops and the enemy is mistaken
in his estimate.

This is an atom: 
[A SOLDIER] It should be equal SOLDIERS geschehn. ([The soldiers go from.]) SIWARD We hear nothing
but that It is with confidence to the tyrant Dunsinan attached And the Belagrung ausstehn
wants. MALCOLM he trusts only. Where's is only possible Outraged high and low against him,
And nobody follows him as erzwungnes people, not of the heart serves. Macduff Let until victory
oriented ruling ausstehn; directs zeal at our war! SIWARD Yes, it is approaching the time, where
real Distinguish suggests that what we owe what we call. Brooding hopes and dreams Ohn
security; real success until the dispute shall decide, And leads him to Kriegeszug! (All
proceed from marching.) FIFTH SCENE (Dunsinan, in the castle) (with drums and flags are on
Macbeth, Seyton soldiers.)

This is an atom: 
MACBETH planted our banner on the wall äußre; always means they are
coming!

This is an atom: 
Our firm Castle Belagrung of laughs, like they are here, To hunger and disease they are
absorbed.

This is an atom: 
Amplify they do not belong to us, we have Bart to Bart, she boldly taken And they scourged
home. (A cry of women behind the scene.) What noise? ([Woman screaming behind the scene.])
SEYTON There shrieks of women is, Mr. gnädger. (Geht ab.) MACBETH I have almost lost the
sense of fear. There was' ne time when cold Schaur grabbed me, When the night bird cried the whole
hair With a terrible story is directed upwards, as if life there. I've vollgeschluckt me with so
much horror: horror, murder my mind closely familiar, never scare me now .-- (Seyton comes
back.) Why the Wehschrein? SEYTON The Queen, Lord, is dead MACBETH you would die later, can it
The time would be for such a word found .-- Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and then again tomorrow, creeps
so small step from day to day, To the last syllable of our lives Sheet; And all our yesterday
led fools the path to dusty death . For small light! Life is just a walking shadow image, a
low comedian, and the spreads gnashes his hour on stage and then is heard no more; ists a
fairy tale, told by a Blödling, full of sound and fury, That means nothing. (A messenger
comes. ) You have what on the tongue: quickly! BOTE My royal lord, I should report that which,
as I think I saw, but as ichs do, I do not know. MACBETH Well,
just sags, man!

This is an atom: 
As BOTE I watch the service on the hill tat - I look after Birnam, and see, seemed to me, the
forest begins to go. MACBETH Liar and slave! (Does it.) BOTE Let me feel your anger, not so
ists: Three miles you will come sehn him; A gehnder Forest - truly! MACBETH speak you false,
thou shalt closest hanging tree alive, Till famine you verschrumpft
has you speaking true, do you like me to do the same meinethalb
feeding .-- I determination to begin the double sense of the evil
enemy to remember the lie speaks like truth: Fear not, Till Birnam
forest anrückt on Dunsinan!

This is an atom: 
- And now comes a forest after Dunsinan! Now arms, weapons, and more! - Is the truth what his
message speaks, Sun is not Fliehn from here, is not staying. The sunlight will already be
hated me, O fell into rubble now, construction of the earth! On, heralding storm! Wind, blow!
Heran, perdition! The armor on the back I want to die. (All starting from.) SIXTH SCENE (Daselbst.
box in front of the castle) (It occurs with drums and flags Malcolm, old Siward, Macduff,
the other leader, with branches of the army.) MALCOLM now close
enough!

This is an atom: 
Yard from the laubigen Umbrellas And shows you how you are!

This is an atom: 
Her uncle würdger, Performs with the cousin, your noble son, the first troop, and I würdge
Macduff Obtain what is still left to do, how we are arranged. SIWARD Lives as well! Considering
we only tonight against the tyrant, He Loves the beat, can not fight! Macduff trumpets blast,
asserts bold courage, herolds calls us into her death and blood! (All from. [Battle behind the
scene.]) SEVENTH SCENE (Daselbst. another part of the field) (Kriegsgeschrei. Macbeth occurs.)
MACBETH They tied me to the pile, fliehn I can not, must bear as
the struggle against the Hatz: Where is he, who was not born of
woman?

This is an atom: 
Den, I fear no else (Young Siward comes.)

This is an atom: 
THE YOUNG SIWARD What is your name? MACBETH You'll scare him to hear. THE YOUNG SIWARD No! Call
you with a name as one grimmren in hell. MACBETH My Nam is Macbeth. SIWARD THE YOUNG The
devil himself could not announce hated my ear.

This is an atom: 
MACBETH And nothing so terrible. THE YOUNG SIWARD disgusting tyrant, you lie! That should
show you my sword. (Battle, the young Siward falls.)

This is an atom: 
MACBETH Wards born of woman .-- The Swords lach me, ridicule of the
danger of what a man threatened a woman gave birth.

This is an atom: 
(He goes from. Turmoil, Macduff comes.)

This is an atom: 
MacDuff there is the noise .-- Let thy face, tyrant! You fall, and not by my sword, I shall be my wife,
child ghost torment, I can access the core poor people do not beat
in gedungner hand Lanze lead.

This is an atom: 
Only you, Macbeth! If not, returns schartenlos And indeed, without my sword back to the vagina.
There, you must be this mächtge Tosen announcing that there is a range from the first fight.
O happiness, one I would just let me find it! (He's up. Turmoil. Malcolm and old Siward
comment.) SIWARD Hieher, my prince! - The castle was willing, on both sides of the fighting
Wütrichs people. The noble Than War, do wackre services; The day has almost decided for you,
little can be done. MALCOLM We met the enemy, the us Haun. SIWARD Come, prince, in the Fort!
(You go from. Turmoil,) EIGHTH SCENE (Daselbst. Another part of the field) (Macbeth comes.)
MACBETH Why should I play the fool römschen, dying through own sword? As long as life before
me, which wounds stehn better.

This is an atom: 
(Macduff comes back.) MacDuff To me, thou hellish dog, to me MACBETH Of all the people I avoided
thee alone, Thou, just get back with the blood of your actual my soul already too loaded.
Macduff I have no words, my voice is in my sword. You scoundrel! Blutger as language has words!
(They fight.) Verlorne Müh MACBETH!

This is an atom: 
How easy do you like the indivisible air with a sharp sword durchhaun when I was hurt. On the
skull, the vulnerable, swinging steel; My life is immune, it can
not succumb to a woman from Gebornen.

This is an atom: 
Macduff To despair at your art, and tell you of angels, each of which you served before the time that
Macduff was cut from mother's womb. MACBETH Cursed tongue that I announce this, because my
best Mannheit they propose! And none of the trau Gaukelspiel of Hell, The doppelsinnger us
äfft speech, the word to the ear only with luck holds promise And
the truth breaks .-- With you not fight me.

This is an atom: 
Macduff Well, so ergib you memme! And as a live theater for the wonders of the world. We
want you as a monster in the picture seltnes on poles lead, with the letters: Here is the
tyrant. MACBETH I will not be shown in order to kiss the ground in front of the boy Malcolm
foot, rushed to be by the rabble curses. Whether Birnam woods came to Dunsinan even if my opponent
is no woman gave birth, but I still wag the Last: the chest before throwing my mächtgen
plate. Now you like the true, Who will stop! first call should go to hell! (You go from fighting.
retreat. Trumpets.

This is an atom: 
It occurs with drums and flags Malcolm, old Siward, Rosse, Lenox, Angus, Cathness, Menteth
and soldiers.) MALCOLM O would be alive the missing Friends! SIWARD Some must draufgehn, but
as far as I can see, this is big day Wohlfeil bought. MALCOLM Macduff is missing and Eur
noble son. ROSSE Eur son Mylord has paid debt warriors. He lived only until he became a man,
in his daring, this was hardly tested by unshrinking blutger fight in battle, when he died
like a man SIWARD So is he dead? ROSSE Yes, and borne from the field. Eur pain must be
measured by its value, otherwise it would be endless. SIWARD Did he forward the wounds? ROSSE
Yes, on the forehead. SIWARD well: he was God's war, man! If I had so many Söhn 'hair' I
have, I never wanted a good death: this is his grave bells. MALCOLM More grief is worth it
yet, I weih it. SIWARD do more weakness. He resigned his honored and paid mine. So, God be
with him! - Look, a new comfort! (Macduff with Macbeth's head.) MacDuff healing, King!
Because the du bist Look, here is Des Main usurper, now we are free! I see you surrounded by
beads of the empire, the greeting in my heart speak to me, And the loud word, I now erheische:
The King of Scotland Heil! ALL Heil, King of Scotland! (Trompetenstoß.)

This is an atom: 
MALCOLM We do not want to waste time in vain, With Your love alone settle, and quinces are
with you. Than and cousins, are henceforth count, the first in Scotland With this honor pillory.
What to do yet, "What must now be planted with time, as returned to the Appellate exiled
friends of the tyrants listger noose entflohn, Einziehn of this blutgen henchmen dead bloodhound
and his hellish Queen, The, as one believes, even violently ended their lives .-- Everything
else responsible for your, The, with the ewgen grace Gnadenhort, after finishing, we measure
and time and place. Werd you all and each of thanks and reward, And now for the coronation lad
I did after Scone. (All from Trompetenstoß..)
She gave a deep, chesty sniff, and close after that sniff a WHOOF that startled the
cubs like the lashing end of a whip. They rolled to her, and with two cuffs of the mother's
huge paws they were headed in the right direction, and all three crashed off into darkness.

This is an atom: 
In spite of his swelling heart Peter let out a little yip. It was a great satisfaction, just
at a moment when his nerves were getting unsteady, to discover that a monster like this one
in the moonlight was anxious to run away from him. And Peter went on, a bit of pride and jauntiness
in his step, his bony tail a little higher.

This is an atom: 
A mile farther on, in another yellow pool of the moon, lay the partly devoured carcass of a
fawn. A wolf had killed it, and had fed, and now two giant owls were rending and tearing in
the flesh and bowels of what the wolf had left. They were Gargantuans of their kind, one a
male, the other a female. Their talons warm in blood, their beaks red, their slow brains drunk
with a ravenous greed, they rose on their great wings in sullen rage when Peter came suddenly
upon them. He had ceased to be afraid of owls. There was something shivery in the gritting
of their beaks, especially in the dark places, but they had never attacked him, and had always
kept out of his reach. So their presence in a black spruce top directly over the dead fawn
did not hold him back now. He sniffed at the fresh, sweet meat, and hunger all at once possessed
him. Where the wolf had stripped open a tender flank he began to eat, and as he ate he growled,
so that warning of his possessorship reached the spruce top.

This is an atom: 
In answer to it came a stir of wings, and the male owl launched himself out into the moon glow.
The female followed. For a few moments they floated like gray ghosts over Peter, silent as
the night shadows. Then, with the suddenness and speed of a bolt from a catapult, the giant
male shot out of a silvery mist of gloom and struck Peter. The two rolled over the carcass
of the fawn, and for a space Peter was dazed by the thundering beat of powerful wings, and
the hammering of the owl's beak at the back of his neck. The male had missed his claw-hold,
and driven by rage and ferocity, fought to impale his victim from the ground, without launching
himself into the air again. Swiftly he struck, again and again, while his wings beat like clubs.
Suddenly his talons sank into the cloth wrapped about Peter's neck. Terror and shock gave way
to a fighting madness inside Peter now. He struck up, and buried his fangs in a mass of feathers
so thick he could not feel the flesh. He tore at the padded breast, snarling and beating with
his feet, and then, as the stiletto-points of the owl's talons sank through the cloth into
his neck, his jaws closed on one of the huge bird's legs. His teeth sank deep, there was a
snapping and grinding of tendon and bone, and a hissing squawk of pain and fear came from above
him as the owl made a mighty effort to launch himself free. As the five-foot pinions beat the
air Peter was lifted from the ground. But the owl's talons were hopelessly entangled in the
cloth, and the two fell in a heap again. Peter scarcely sensed what happened after that, except
that he was struggling against death. He closed his eyes, and the leg between his jaws was
broken and twisted into pulp. The wings beat about him in a deafening thunder, and the owl's
beak tore at his flesh, until the pool of moonlight in which they fought was red with blood.
At last something gave way. There was a ghastly cry that was like the cry of neither bird nor
beast, a weak flutter of wings, and Gargantua of the Air staggered up into the treetops and
fell with a crash among the thick boughs of the spruce.

This is an atom: 
Peter raised himself weakly, the severed leg of the owl dropping from his jaws. He was half
blinded. Every muscle in his body seemed to be torn and bleeding, yet in his discomfort the
thrilling conviction came to him that he had won. He tensed himself for another attack, hugging
the ground closely as he watched and waited, but no attack came. He could hear the flutter
and wheeze of his maimed adversary, and slowly he drew himself back--still facing the scene
of battle--until in a farther patch of gloom he turned once more to his business of following
the trail of Jolly Roger McKay.

This is an atom: 
There was no mark of bravado in his advance now. If he had possessed an over-growing confidence,
Gargantua's attack had set it back, and he stole like a shifty fox through the night. Driven
into his brain was the knowledge that all things were not afraid of him, for even the snapping
beaks and floating gray shapes to which he had paid but little attention had now become a deadly
menace. His egoism had suffered a jolt, a healthful reaction from its too swift ascendency.
He sensed the narrowness of his escape without the mental action of reasoning it out, and his
injuries were secondary to the oppressive horror of the uncanny combat out of which he had
come alive. Yet this horror was not a fear. Heretofore he had recognized the ghostly owl-shapes
of night more or less as a curious part of darkness, inspiring neither like nor dislike in
him. Now he hated them, and ever after his fangs gleamed white when one of them floated over
his head.

This is an atom: 
He was badly hurt. There were ragged tears in his flank and back, and a last stroke of Gargantua's
talons had stabbed his shoulder to the bone. Blood dripped from him, and one of his eyes was
closing, so that shapes and shadows were grotesquely dim in the night. Instinct and caution,
and the burning pains in his body, urged him to lie down in a thicket and wait for the day.
But stronger than these were memory of the girl's urging voice, the vague thrill of the cloth
still about his neck, and the freshness of Jolly Roger's trail as it kept straight on through
the forest's moonlit corridors and caverns of gloom.

This is an atom: 
It was in the first graying light of July dawn that Peter dragged himself up the rough side
of a ridge and looked down into a narrow strip of plain on the other side. Just as Nada had
given up in weakness and despair, so now he was almost ready to quit. He had traveled miles
since the owl fight, and his wounds had stiffened, and with every step gave him excruciating
pain. His injured eye was entirely closed, and there was a strange, dull ache in the back of
his head, where Gargantua had pounded him with his beak. The strip of valley, half hidden in
its silvery mist of dawn, seemed a long distance away to Peter, and he dropped on his belly
and began to lick his raw shoulder with a feverish tongue. He was sick and tired, and the futility
of going farther oppressed him. He looked again down into the strip of plain, and whined.

This is an atom: 
Then, suddenly, he smelled something that was not the musty fog- mist that hung between the
ridges. It was smoke. Peter's heart beat faster, and he pulled himself to his feet, and went
in its direction.

This is an atom: 
Hidden in a little grassy cup between two great boulders that thrust themselves out from the
face of the ridge, he found Jolly Roger. First he saw the smouldering embers of a fire that
was almost out--and then his master. Jolly Roger was asleep. Storm- beaten and strangely haggard
and gray his face was turned to the sky. Peter did not awaken him. There was something in his
master's face that quieted the low whimper in his throat. Very gently he crept to him, and
lay down. The movement, slight as it was, made the man stir. His hand rose, and then fell limply
across Peter's body. But the fingers moved.

This is an atom: 
Unconsciously, as if guided by the spirit and prayer of the girl waiting far back in the forest,
they twined about the cloth around Peter's neck--his message to his master.

This is an atom: 
And for a long time after that, as the sun rose over a wonderful world, Peter and his master slept.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER IX

This is an atom: 
It was the restlessness of Peter that roused Jolly Roger. Half awake, and before he opened
his eyes, life seized upon him where sleep had cut it off for a time last night. His muscles
ached. His neck was stiff. He seemed weighted like a log to the hard earth. Swiftly the experience
of the preceding hours rushed upon him, and it was in the first of this wakefulness that he
felt the presence of Peter.

This is an atom: 
He sat up and stared wide-eyed at the dog. The fact that Peter had escaped from the cabin,
and had followed him, was not altogether amazing. It was quite the natural thing for a one-man
dog to do. But the unexpectedness of it held McKay speechless, and at first a little disappointed.
It was as if Peter had deliberately betrayed a trust. During the storm and flight of the night
McKay had thought of him as the one connecting link remaining between him and the girl he loved.
He had left Peter to fill his place, to guard and watch and keep alive the memory of the man
who was gone. For him there had been something of consolation in this giving up of his comradeship
to Nada. And Peter had turned traitor.

This is an atom: 
Even Peter seemed to sense the argument and condemnation that was passing behind McKay's unsmiling
eyes. He did not move, but lay squatted on his belly, with his nose straight out on the ground
between his forepaws. It was his attitude of self-immolation. His acknowledgment of the other's
right to strike with lash or club. Yet in his eyes, bright and steady behind his mop of whiskers,
Jolly Roger saw a prayer.

This is an atom: 
Without a word he held out his arms. It was all Peter needed, and in a moment he was hugged
up close against McKay. After all, there was a mighty something that reached from heart to
heart of these two, and Jolly Roger said, with a sound that was half laugh and half sob in
his throat,

This is an atom: 
"Pied-Bot, you devil--you little devil--"

This is an atom: 
His fingers closed in the cloth about Peter's neck, and his heart jumped when he saw what it
was--a piece of Nada's dress. Peter, realizing that at last the importance of his mission was
understood, waited in eager watchfulness while his master untied the knot. And in another moment,
out in the clean and glorious sun that had followed storm, McKay held the shining tress of
Nada's hair.

This is an atom: 
It was a real sob that broke in his throat now, and Peter saw him crush the shining thing to
his face, and hold it there, while strange quivers ran through his strong shoulders, and a
wetness that was not rain gathered in his eyes.

This is an atom: 
"God bless her!" he whispered. And then he said, "I wish I was a kid, Peter--a kid. Because--if
I ever wanted to cry--IT'S NOW"

This is an atom: 
In his face, even with the tears and the strange quivering of his lips, Peter saw a radiance
that was joy. And McKay stood up, and looked south, back over the trail he had followed through
the blackness and storm of night. He was visioning things. He saw Nada in Father John's cabin,
urging Peter out into the wild tumult of thunder and lightning with that precious part of her
which she knew he would love forever. Her last message to him. Her last promise of love and
faith until the end of time.

This is an atom: 
He guessed only the beginning of the truth. And Peter, denied the power of thought transmission
because of an error in the creation of things, ran back a little way over the trail, trying
to tell his master that Nada had come with him through the storm, and was back in the deep
forest calling for him to return.

This is an atom: 
But McKay's mind saw nothing beyond the dimly lighted room of the Missioner's cabin.

This is an atom: 
He pressed his lips to the silken tress of Nada's hair, still damp with the rain; and after
that, with the care of a miser he smoothed it out, and tied the end of the tress tightly with
a string, and put it away in the soft buckskin wallet which he carried.

This is an atom: 
There was a new singing in his heart as he gathered sticks with which to build a small fire,
for after this he would not travel quite alone.

This is an atom: 
That day they went on; and day followed day, until August came, and north--still farther north
they went into the illimitable wilderness which reached out in the drowsing stillness of the
Flying-up-Month--the month when newly fledged things take to their wings, and the deep forests
lie asleep.

This is an atom: 
Days added themselves into weeks, until at last they were in the country of the Reindeer waterways.

This is an atom: 
To the east was Hudson's Bay; westward lay the black forests and twisting waterways of Upper
Saskatchewan; and north--always north --beckoned the lonely plains and unmapped wildernesses
of the Athabasca, the Slave and the Great Bear--toward which far country their trail was slowly
but surely wending its way.

This is an atom: 
The woodlands and swamps were now empty of man. Cabin and shack and Indian tepee were lifeless,
and waited in the desolation of abandonment. No smoke rose in the tree-tops; no howl of dog
came with the early dawn and the setting sun; trap lines were over- growing, and laughter and
song and the ring of the trapper's axe were gone, leaving behind a brooding silence that seemed
to pulse and thrill like a great heart--the heart of the wild unchained for a space from its
human bondage.

This is an atom: 
It was the vacation time--the midsummer carnival weeks of the wilderness people. Wild things
were breeding. Fur was not good. Flesh was unfit to kill. And so they had disappeared, man,
woman and child, and their dogs as well, to foregather at the Hudson's Bay Company's posts
scattered here and there in the fastnesses of the wilderness lands. A few weeks more and they
would return. Cabins would send up their smoke again. Brown-faced children would play about
the tepee door. Ten thousand dwellers of the forests, white and half-breed and Indian born,
would trickle in twos and threes and family groups back into the age-old trade of a domain
that reached from Hudson's Bay to the western mountains and from the Height of Land to the
Arctic Sea.

This is an atom: 
Until then nature was free, and in its freedom ran in riotous silence over the land. These
were days when the wolf lay with her young, but did not howl; when the lynx yawned sleepily,
and hunted but little--days of breeding, nights of drowsy whisperings, and of big red moons,
and of streams rippling softly at lowest ebb while they dreamed of rains and flood-time. And
through it all--through the lazy drone of insects, the rustling sighs of the tree-tops and
the subdued notes of living things ran a low and tremulous whispering, as if nature had found
for itself a new language in this temporary absence of man.

This is an atom: 
To Jolly Roger this was Life, It breathed for him out of the cool earth. He heard it over him,
and under him, and on all sides of him where other ears would have found only a thing vast
and oppressive and silent. On what he called these "motherhood days of the earth" the passing
years had built his faith and his creed.

This is an atom: 
One evening he stopped for camp at the edge of the Burntwood. From his feet reached out the
wide river, ankle deep in places, knee deep in others, rippling and singing between sandbars
and driftwood where in May and June it had roared with the fury of flood Peter, half asleep
after their day's travel through a hot forests watched his master. Since their flight from
the edge of civilization far south he had grown heavier and broadened out. The hardship of
adventuring and the craft of fighting for food and life had whipped the last of his puppyhood
behind him At six months of age he was scarred, and lithe-muscled, and ready for instant action
at all times. Through the mop of Airedale whiskers that covered his face his bright eyes were
ever alert, and always they watched the back-trail as he wondered why the slim, blue-eyed girl
they both loved and missed so much did not come. And vaguely he wondered why it was that his
master always went on and on, and never waited for her to catch up with them.

This is an atom: 
And Jolly Roger was changed. He was not the plump and rosy-faced wilderness freebooter who
whistled and sang away down at Cragg's Ridge even when he knew the Law was at his heels. The
steadiness of their flight had thinned him, and a graver look had settled in his face. But
in his clear eyes was still the love of life--a thing even stronger than the grief which was
eating at his heart as their trail reached steadily toward the Barren Lands.

This is an atom: 
In the sunset glow of this late afternoon Peter's watchful eyes saw his master draw forth their
treasure.

This is an atom: 
It was something he had come to look for, and expect--once, twice, and sometimes half a dozen
times between the rising and the setting of the sun. And at night, when they paused in their
flight for the day, Jolly Roger never failed to do what he was doing now. Peter drew nearer
to where his master was sitting with his back to the big rock, and his eyes glistened. Always
he caught the sweet, illusive perfume of the girl when Jolly Roger drew out their preciously
guarded package. He unwrapped it gently now, and in a moment held in his hands the tress of
Nada's hair, the last of her they would ever possess or see. And Peter wondered again why they
did not go back to where they had left the rest of the girl. Many times, seeing his restlessness
and his yearning, Jolly Roger had tried to make him understand. And Peter tried to comprehend.
But always in his dreams he was with the girl he loved, following her, playing with her, fighting
for her, hearing her voice--feeling the touch of her hand. In his dog soul he wanted her, just
as Jolly Roger wanted her with all the yearning and heartbreak of the man. Yet always when
he awoke from his dreams they went on again--not south--but north. To Peter this was hopeless
mystery, and he possessed no power of reason to solve it. Nor could he speak in words the message
which he carried in his heart--that last crying agony of the girl when she had sent him out
on the trail of Roger McKay, entreating him to bring back the man she loved and would always
love in spite of all the broken and unbroken laws in the world.

This is an atom: 
That night, as they lay beside the Burntwood, Peter heard his master crying out Nada's name
in his sleep.

This is an atom: 
And the next dawn they went on--still farther north.

This is an atom: 
In these days and weeks, with the hot inundation of the wilderness about him, McKay fought
doggedly against the forces which were struggling to break down the first law of his creed.
The law might catch him, and probably would, and when it caught him the law might hang him--and
probably would. But it would never KNOW him. There was something grimly and tragically humorous
in this. It would never know of the consuming purity of his worship for little children, and
old people--and women. It would laugh at the religion he had built up for himself, and it would
cackle tauntingly if he dared to say he was not wholly bad. For it believed he was bad, and
it believed he had killed Jed Hawkins, and he knew that seven hundred men were anxious to get
him, dead or alive.

This is an atom: 
But was he bad?

This is an atom: 
He took the matter up one evening, with Peter.

This is an atom: 
"If I'm bad, mebby it isn't all my fault, Pied-Bot," he said. "Mebby it's this--" and he swept
his arms out to the gathering night." I was born in the open, on a night just like this is
going to be. My mother, before she died, told me many times how she watched the moon come up
that night, and how it seemed to look down on her, and talk to her, like a living thing. And
I've loved the moon ever since, and the sun, and everything that's outdoors-- and if there's
a God I don't believe He ever intended man to make a law that wasn't right according to the
plans He laid out. That's where I've got in wrong, Pied-Bot, I haven't always believed in man-made
law, and I've settled a lot of things in my own way. And I guess I've loved trees and flowers
and sunshine and wind and storm too much. I've just wandered. And I've done things along the
way. The thrill of it got into me, Pied-Bot, and--the law wants me!"

This is an atom: 
Peter heard the subdued humor of the man, a low laugh that held neither fear nor regret.

This is an atom: 
"It was the Treaty Money first," he went on, leaning very seriously toward Peter, as if he
expected an argument. "You see, Yellow Bird was in that particular tribe, Pied-Bot. I remember
her as she looked to me when a boy, with her two long, shining black braids and her face that
was almost as beautiful to me as my mother's. My mother loved her, and she loved my mother,
and I loved Yellow Bird, just as a child loves a fairy. And always Yellow Bird has been my
fairy, Peter. I guess child worship is the one thing that lasts through life, always remaining
ideal, and never forgotten. Years after my mother's death, when I was a young man, and had
been down to Montreal and Ottawa and Quebec, I went back to Yellow Bird's tribe. And it was
starving, Pied-Bot. Starving to death!"

This is an atom: 
Reminiscent tenderness and humor were gone from McKay's voice. It was hard and flinty.

This is an atom: 
"It was winter," he continued, "the dead of winter. And cold. So cold that even the wolves
and foxes had buried themselves in. No fish that autumn, no game in the deep snows, and the
Indians were starving. Pied-Bot, my heart went dead when I saw Yellow Bird. There didn't seem
to be anything left of her but her eyes and her hair--those two great, shining braids, and
eyes that were big and deep and dark, like beautiful pools. Boy, you never saw an Indian --an
Indian like Yellow Bird--cry. They don't cry very much. But when that childhood fairy of mine
first saw me she just stood there, swaying in her weakness, and the tears filled those big,
wide-open eyes and ran down her thin cheeks. She had married Slim Buck. Two of their three
children had died within a fortnight. Slim Buck was dying of hunger and exhaustion. And Yellow
Bird's heart was broken, and her soul was crying out for God to let her lie down beside Slim
Buck and die with him--when I happened along.

This is an atom: 
"Peter--" Jolly Roger leaned over in the thickening dusk, and his eyes gleamed. "Peter, if
there's a God, an' He thinks I did wrong then, let Him strike me dead right here! I'm willin'.
I found out what the trouble was. There was a new Indian Agent, a cur. And near the tribe was
a Free Trader, another cur. The two got together. The Agent sent up the Treaty Money, and along
with it-- underground, mind you--he sent a lot of whiskey to the Free Trader. Inside of five
days the whiskey got the Treaty Money from the Indians. Then came winter. Everything went bad,
When I came-- and found out what had happened--eighteen out of sixty had died, and inside of
another two weeks half the others would follow. Pied-Bot, away back--somewhere--there must
have been a pirate before me--mebby a great-grandfather of mine. I set out, I came back in
three days, and I had a sledge-load of grub, and warm things to wear--plenty of them. My God,
how those starving things did eat! I went again, and returned in another week, with a still
bigger sledge-load. And Yellow Bird was getting beautiful again, and Slim Buck was on his feet,
growing strong, and there was happiness--and I think God A'mighty was glad. I kept it up for
two months. Then the back-bone of the winter broke. Game came into the country I left them
well supplied--and skipped. That was what made me an outlaw, Pied-Bot. That!"

This is an atom: 
He chuckled, and Peter heard the rubbing of his hands in the gloom.

This is an atom: 
"Want to know why?" he asked. "Well, you see, I went over to the Free Trader's, and this God
the law don't take into account went with me, and we found the skunk alone. First I licked
him until he was almost dead. Then, sticking a knife into him about half an inch, I made him
write a note saying he was called south suddenly, and authorizing me to take charge in his
absence. Then I chained him in a dugout in a place where nobody would find him. And I took
charge. Pied-Bot, I sure did! Everybody was on the trap-lines, and I wasn't bothered much by
callers. And I fed and clothed my tribe for eight straight weeks, fed 'em until they grew fat,
Boy--and Yellow Bird's eyes were bright as stars again. Then I brought Roach--that was his
name--back to his empty post, and I lectured him, an' gave him another licking--and left."

This is an atom: 
McKay rose to his feet. The first stars were peeping out of the velvety darkness of the sky,
and Peter heard his master draw in a deep breath--the breath of a man whose lungs rejoice in
the glory of life.

This is an atom: 
After a moment he said,

This is an atom: 
"And the Royal Mounted have been after me ever since that winter, Peter. And the harder they've
chased me the more I've given them reason to chase me. I half killed Beaudin, the Government
mail- runner, because he insulted another man's wife when that man--my friend--was away. Then
Beaudin, seeing his chance, robbed the mail himself, and the crime was laid to me. Well, I
got even, and stuck up a mail-sledge myself--but I guess there was a good reason for it. I've
done a lot of things since then, but I've done it all with my naked fists, and I've never put
a bullet or a knife into a man except Roach the Free Trader. And the funniest thing of the
whole business, Pied-Bot, is this--I didn't kill Jed Hawkins. Some day mebby I'll tell you
about what happened on the trail, the thing which you and Nada didn't see. But now--"

This is an atom: 
For a moment he stood very still, and Peter sensed the sudden thrill that was going through
the man as he stood there in darkness. And then, suddenly, Jolly Roger bent over him.

This is an atom: 
"Peter, there's three women we'll love as long as we live," he whispered. "There's my mother,
and she is dead. There's Nada back there, and we'll never see her again--" His voice choked
for an instant. "And then--there's Yellow Bird--" he added. "It's five years since I fed the
tribe. Mebby they've had more kids! Boy, let's go and see!"

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER X

This is an atom: 
North and west, in the direction of Yellow Bird's people, went Jolly Roger and Peter after
that night. They traveled slowly and cautiously, and with each day Peter came to understand
more clearly there was some reason why they must be constantly on their guard. His master,
he noticed, was thrillingly attentive whenever a sound came to their ears--perhaps the cracking
of a twig, a mysterious movement of brush, or the tread of a cloven hoof. And instinctively
he came to know they were evading Man. He remembered vividly their escape from Cassidy and
their quiet hiding for many days in the mass of sun-baked rocks which Jolly Roger had called
the Stew-Kettle. The same vigilance seemed to be a part of his master's movements now. He did
not laugh, or sing, or whistle, or talk loudly. He built fires so small that at first Peter
was absorbed in an almost scientific analysis of them; and instead of shooting game which could
have been easily secured he set little snares in the evening, and caught fish in the streams.
At night they always slept half a mile or more from the place where they had built their tiny
supper-fire. And during these hours of sleep Peter was ready to rouse himself at the slightest
sound of movement near them. Scarcely a night passed that his low growl of warning did not
bring Jolly Roger out of his slumber, a hand on his gun, and his eyes and ears wide open.

This is an atom: 
Whether he would have used the gun had the red-coated police suddenly appeared, McKay had not
quite assured himself. Day after day the same old fight went on within him. He analyzed his
situation from every point of view, and always--no matter how he went about it--eventually
found himself face to face with the same definite fact. If the law succeeded in catching Him
it would not trouble itself to punish him for stealing back the Treaty Money, or for holding
up Government mails, or for any of his other misdemeanors. It would hang him for the murder
of Jed Hawkins. And the minions of the law would laugh at the truth, even if he told it--which
he never would. More than once his imaginative genius had drawn up a picture of that impossible
happening. For it was a truth so inconceivable that he found the absurdity of it a grimly humorous
thing. Even Nada believed he had killed her scoundrelly foster-father. Yet it was she--herself--who
had killed him! And it was Nada whom the law would hang, if the truth was known--and believed.

This is an atom: 
Frequently he went back over the scenes of that tragic night at Cragg's Ridge when all the
happiness in the world seemed to be offering itself to him--the night when Nada was to go with
him to the Missioner's, to become his wife, And then--the dark trail-- the disheveled girl
staggering to him through the starlight, and her sobbing story of how Jed Hawkins had tried
to drag her through the forest to Mooney's cabin, and how--at last--she had saved herself by
striking him down with a stick which she had caught up out of the darkness. Would the police
believe HIM--an outlaw--if he told the rest of the story?--how he had gone back to give Jed
Hawkins the beating of his life, and had found him dead in the trail, where Nada had struck
him down? Would they believe him if, in a moment of cowardice, he told them that to protect
the girl he loved he had fastened the responsibility of the crime upon himself? No, they would
not. He had made the evidence too complete. The world would call him a lying yellow-back if
he betrayed what had actually happened on the trail between Cragg's Ridge and Mooney's cabin.

This is an atom: 
And this, after all, was the one remaining bit of happiness in Jolly Roger's heart, the knowledge
that he had made the evidence utterly complete, and that Nada would never know, and the world
would never know--the truth. His love for the blue-eyed girl-woman who had given her heart
and her soul into his keeping, even when she knew he was an outlaw, was an undying thing, like
his love for the mother of years ago. "It will be easy to die for her," he told Peter, and
this, in the end, was what he knew he was going to do. Thought of the inevitable did not make
him afraid. He was determined to keep his freedom and his life as long as he could, but he
was fatalistic enough, and sufficiently acquainted with the Royal Northwest Mounted Police,
to know what the ultimate of the thing would be. And yet, with tragedy behind him, and a still
grimmer tragedy ahead, the soul of Jolly Roger was not dead or in utter darkness. In it, waking
and sleeping, he enshrined the girl who had been willing to give up all other things in the
world for him, who had pleaded with him in the last hour of storm down on the edge of civilization
that she be given the privilege of accompanying him wherever his fate might lead. That he was
an outlaw had not destroyed her faith in him. That he had killed a man--a man unfit to live--had
only drawn her arms more closely about him, and had made her more completely a part of him.
And a thousand times the maddening thought possessed Jolly Roger--was he wrong, and not right,
in refusing to accept the love and companionship which she had begged him to accept, in spite
of all that had happened and all that might happen?

This is an atom: 
Day by day he slowly won for himself, and at last, as they traveled in the direction of Yellow
Bird's country, he crushed the final doubt that oppressed him, and knew that he was right.
In his selfishness he had not shackled her to an outlaw. He had left her free. Life and hope
and other happiness were ahead of her. He had not destroyed her, and this thought would strengthen
him and leave something of gladness in his heart, even in that gray dawn when the law would
compel him to make his final sacrifice.

This is an atom: 
It is a strange peace which follows grief, a secret happiness no other soul but one can understand.
Out of it excitement and passion have been burned, and it is then the Great God of things comes
more closely into the possession of his own. And now, as they went westward and north toward
the Wollaston Lake country, this peace possessed Jolly Roger. It mellowed his world. It was
half an ache, half a steady and undying pain, but it drew Life nearer to him than he had ever
known it before. His love for the sun and the sky, for the trees and flowers and all growing
things of the earth was more worship of the divine than a love for physical things, and each
day he felt it drawing more closely about him in its comradeship, whispering to him of its
might, and of its power to care for him in the darkest hours of stress that might come.

This is an atom: 
He did not travel fast after he had reached the decision to go to Yellow Bird's people. And
he tried to imagine, a great deal of the time, that Nada was with him. He succeeded in a way
that bewildered Peter, for quite frequently the man talked to someone who was not there.

This is an atom: 
The slowness and caution with which they traveled developed Peter's mental faculties with marvelous
swiftness. His master, free of egoism and prejudice, had placed him on a plane of intimate
equality, and Peter struggled each day to live up a little more to the responsibility of this
intimacy and confidence. Instinct, together with human training, taught him woodcraft until
in many ways he was more clever than his master. And along with this Jolly Roger slowly but
surely impressed upon him the difference between wanton slaughter and necessary killing.

This is an atom: 
"Everything that's got a breath of life must kill--up to a certain point," Jolly Roger explained
to him, repeating the lesson over and over. "And that isn't wrong, Peter. The sin is in killing
when you don't have to. See that tree over there, with a vine as big as my wrist winding around
it, like a snake? Well, that vine is choking the life out of the tree, and in time the tree
will die. But the vine is doing just what God A'mighty meant it to do. It needs a tree to live
on. But I'm going to cut the vine, because I think more of the tree than I do the vine. That's
MY privilege-- following my conscience. And we're eating young partridges tonight, because
we had to have something to keep us alive. It's the necessity of the thing that counts, Peter.
Think you can understand that?"

This is an atom: 
It was pretty hard for Peter at first, but he was observant, and his mind worked quickly. The
crime of destroying birdlings in their nest, or on the ground, was impressed upon him. He began
to understand there was a certain humiliating shame attached to an attack upon a creature weaker
than himself, unless there was a reason for it. He looked chiefly to his master for decisions
in the matter. Snowshoe rabbits, young and half grown, were very tame in this month of August,
and ordinarily he would have destroyed many of them in a day's travel. But unless Jolly Roger
gave him a signal, or he was hungry, he would pass a snowshoe unconcernedly. This phase of
Peter's development interested Jolly Roger greatly. The outlaw's philosophy had not been punctured
by the egotistical "I am the only reasoning being" arguments of narrow-gauged nature scientists.
He believed that Peter possessed not only a brain and super-instinct, but also a very positive
reasoning power which he was helping to develop. And the process was one that fascinated him.
When he was not sleeping, or traveling, or teaching Peter he was usually reading the wonderful
little red volumes of history which he had purloined from the mail sledge up near the Barren
Lands. He knew their contents nearly by heart. His favorites were the life-stories of Napoleon,
Margaret of Anjou, and Peter the Great, and always when he compared his own troubles with the
difficulties and tragedies over which these people had triumphed he felt a new courage and
inspiration, and faced the world with better cheer. If Nature was his God and Bible, and Nada
his Angel, these finger-worn little books written by a man half a century dead were voices
out of the past urging him on to his best. Their pages were filled with the vivid lessons of
sacrifice, of courage and achievement, of loyalty, honor and dishonor--and of the crashing
tragedy which comes always with the last supreme egoism and arrogance of man. He marked the
dividing lines, and applied them to himself. And he told Peter of his conclusions. He felt
a consuming tenderness for the glorious Margaret of Anjou, and his heart thrilled one day when
a voice seemed to whisper to him out of the printed page that Nada was another Margaret--only
more wonderful because she was not a princess and a queen.

This is an atom: 
"The only difference," he explained to Peter, "is that Margaret sacrificed and fought and died
for a king, and our Nada is willing to do all that for a poor beggar of an outlaw. Which makes
Margaret a second-rater compared with Nada," he added. "For Margaret wanted a kingdom along
with her husband, and Nada would take--just you and me. And that's where we're pulling some
Peter the Great stuff," he tried to laugh. "We won't let her do it!"

This is an atom: 
And so they went on, day after day, toward the Wollaston waterways--the country of Yellow Bird
and her people.

This is an atom: 
It was early September when they crossed the Geikie and struck up the western shore of Wollaston
Lake. The first golden tints were ripening in the canoe-birch leaves, and the tremulous whisper
of autumn was in the rustle of the aspen trees. The poplars were yellowing, the ash were blood
red with fruit, and in cool, dank thickets wild currants were glossy black and lusciously ripe.
It was the season which Jolly Roger loved most of all, and it was the beginning of Peter's
first September. The days were still hot, but at night there was a bracing something in the
air that stirred the blood, and Peter found a sharp, new note in the voices of the wild. The
wolf howled again in the middle of the night. The loon forgot his love-sickness, and screamed
raucous defiance at the moon. The big snowshoes were no longer tame, but wary and alert, and
the owls seemed to slink deeper into darkness and watch with more cunning. And Jolly Roger
knew the human masters of the wilderness were returning from the Posts to their cabins and
trap- lines, and he advanced with still greater caution. And as he went, watching for smoke
and listening for sound, he began to reflect upon the many changes which five years might have
produced among Yellow Bird's people. Possibly other misfortunes had come, other winters of
hunger and pestilence, scattering and destroying the tribe. It might even be that Yellow Bird
was dead.

This is an atom: 
For three days he followed slowly the ragged shore of Wollaston Lake, and foreboding of evil
was oppressing him when he came upon the fish-racks of the Indians. They had been abandoned
for many days, for black bear tracks fairly inundated the place, and Peter saw two of the bears--fat
and unafraid--nosing along the shore where the fish offal had been thrown.

This is an atom: 
It was the next day, in the hour before sunset, that Jolly Roger and Peter came out on the
edge of a shelving beach where Indian children were playing in the white sand. Among these
children, playing and laughing with them, was a woman. She was tall and slim, with a skirt
of soft buckskin that came only a little below her knees, and two shining black braids which
tossed like velvety ropes when she ran. And she was running when they first saw her-- running
away from them, pursued by the children; and then she twisted suddenly, and came toward them,
until with a startled cry she stopped almost within the reach of Jolly Roger's hands. Peter
was watching. He saw the half frightened look in her face, then the slow widening of her dark
eyes, and the quick intake of her breath. And in that moment Jolly Roger cried out a name.

This is an atom: 
"Yellow Bird!"

This is an atom: 
He went to her slowly, wondering if it could be possible the years had touched Yellow Bird
so lightly; and Yellow Bird reached out her hands to him, her face flaming up with sudden happiness,
and Peter wondered what it was all about as he cautiously eyed the half dozen brown-faced little
Indian children who had now gathered quietly about them. In another moment there was an interruption.
A girl came through the fringe of willows behind them. It was as if another Yellow Bird had
come to puzzle Peter--the same slim, graceful little body, the same shining eyes, and yet she
was half a dozen years younger than Nada. For the first time Peter was looking at Sun Cloud,
the daughter of Yellow Bird. And in that moment he loved her, just as something gave him confidence
and faith in the starry-eyed woman whose hands were in his master's. Then Yellow Bird called,
and the girl went to her mother, and Jolly Roger hugged her in his arms and kissed her on the
scarlet mouth she turned up to him. Then they hurried along the shore toward the fishing camp,
the children racing ahead to tell the news, led by Sun Cloud--with Peter running at her heels.

This is an atom: 
Never had Peter heard anything from a man's throat like the two yells that came from Slim Buck,
Yellow Bird's husband and chief of the tribe, after he had greeted Jolly Roger McKay. It was
a note harking back to the old war trails of the Crees, and what followed it that night was
most exciting to Peter. Big fires were built of white driftwood, and there was singing and
dancing, and a great deal of laughter and eating, and the interminable howling of half a hundred
Siwash dogs. Peter did not like the dogs, but he did no fighting because his love for Sun Cloud
kept him close to the touch of her little brown hand.

This is an atom: 
That night, in the glow of the big fire outside of Slim Buck's tepee, Jolly Roger's heart thrilled
with a pleasure which it had not known for a long time. He loved to look at Yellow Bird. Five
years had not changed her. Her eyes were starry bright. Her teeth were like milk. The color
still came and went in her brown cheeks, even as it did in Sun Cloud's. All of which, in this
heart of a wilderness, meant that she had been happy and prosperous. And he also loved to look
at Sun Cloud, who possessed all of that rare wildflower beauty sometimes given to the northern
Crees. And it did him good to look at Slim Buck. He was a splendid mate, and a royal father,
and Jolly Roger found himself strangely happy in their happiness. In the eyes of men and women
and little children he saw that happiness all about him. For three winters there had been splendid
trapping, Slim Buck told him, and this season they had caught and dried enough fish to carry
them through the following winter, even if black days should come. His people were rich. They
had many warm blankets, and good clothes, and the best of tepees and guns and sledges, and
several treasures besides. Two of these Yellow Bird and her husband disclosed to Jolly Roger
this first night. One of them was a sewing machine, and the other--a phonograph! And Jolly
Roger listened to "Mother Machree" and "The Rosary" that night as he sat by Wollaston Lake
with six hundred miles of wilderness between him and Cragg's Ridge.

This is an atom: 
Later, when the camp slept, Yellow Bird and Slim Buck and Jolly Roger still sat beside the
red embers of their fire, and Jolly Roger told of what had happened down at the edge of civilization.
It was what his heart needed, and he left out none of the details. Slim Buck was listening,
but Jolly Roger knew he was talking straight at Yellow Bird, and that her warm heart was full
of understanding. Softly, in that low Cree voice which is the sweetest of all voices, she asked
him many questions about Nada, and gently her slim fingers caressed the tress of Nada's hair
which he let her take in her hands. And after a long time, she said.

This is an atom: 
"I have given her a name. She is Oo-Mee, the Pigeon."

This is an atom: 
Slim Buck started at the strange note in her voice.

This is an atom: 
"The Pigeon," he repeated,

This is an atom: 
"Yes, Oo-Mee, the Pigeon," Yellow Bird nodded. She was not looking at them. In the firelight
her eyes were glowing pools. Her body had grown a little tense. Without asking Jolly Roger's
permission she placed the tress of Nada's hair in her bosom. "Oo-Mee, the Pigeon," she said
again, looking far away. "That is her name, because the Pigeon flies fast and straight and
true. Over forests and lakes and worlds the Pigeon flies. It is tireless. It is swift. It always--flies
home."

This is an atom: 
Slim Buck rose quietly to his feet.

This is an atom: 
"Come," he whispered, looking at Jolly Roger,

This is an atom: 
Yellow Bird did not look at them or speak to them, and Slim Buck-- with his hand on Jolly Roger's
arm--pulled him gently away. In his eyes was a little something of fear, and yet along with
it a sublime faith.

This is an atom: 
"Her spirit will be with Oo-Mee, the Pigeon, tonight," he said in a voice struck with awe.
"It will go to this place which you have described, and it will live in the body of the girl,
and through Yellow Bird it will tell you tomorrow what has happened, and what is going to happen."

This is an atom: 
In the edge of the shore-willows Jolly Roger stood for a time watching Yellow Bird as she sat
under the stars, motionless as a figure graven out of stone. He felt a curious tingling at
his heart, something stirring uneasily in his breast, and he stood alone even after Slim Buck
had stretched himself out in the soft sand to sleep. He was not superstitious. Yet it was equally
a part of his philosophy and his creed to believe in the overwhelming power of the mind. "If
you have faith enough, and think hard enough, you can think anything until it comes true,"
he had told himself more than once. And he knew Yellow Bird possessed that illimitable faith,
and that behind her divination lay generations and centuries of an unbreakable certainty in
the power of mind over matter. He realized his own limitations, but a mysterious voice in the
still night seemed whispering to him that in the crude wisdom of Yellow Bird's brain lay the
secret to strange achievement, and that on this night her mind might perform for him what he,
in his greater wisdom, would call a miracle. He had seen things like that happen. And he sat
down in the sand, sleepless, and with Peter at his feet waited for Yellow Bird to stir.

This is an atom: 
He could see the dull shimmer of starlight in her hair, but the rest of her was a shadow that
gave no sign of life. The camp was asleep. Even the dogs were buried in their wallows of sand,
and the last red spark of the fires had died out. The hour passed, and another hour followed,
and the lids of Jolly Roger's eyes grew heavier as the fading stars seemed to be sinking deeper
into infinity. At last he slept, with his back leaning against a sand- dune the children had
made. He dreamed, and was flying through the air with Yellow Bird. She was traveling swift
and straight, like an arrow, and he had difficulty in keeping up with her, and at last he cried
out for her to wait--that he could go no farther. The cry roused him. He opened his eyes, and
found cool, gray dawn in the sky. Peter, alert, was muzzling his hand. Slim Buck lay in the
sand, still asleep. There was no stir in the camp. And then, with a sudden catch in his breath,
he looked toward Yellow Bird's tepee.

This is an atom: 
Yellow Bird still sat in the sand. Through the hours of fading starlight and coming dawn she
had not moved. Slowly McKay rose to his feet. When he came to her, making no sound, she looked
up. The shimmer of glistening dew was in her hair. Her long lashes were wet with it. Her face
was very pale, and her eyes so large and dark that for a moment they startled him. She was
tired. Exhaustion was in her slim, limp body.

This is an atom: 
A sigh came from her lips, and her shoulders swayed a little.

This is an atom: 
"Sit down, Neekewa," she whispered, drawing the ropes of her hair about her as if she were cold.

This is an atom: 
Then she drew a slim hand over her eyes, and shivered.

This is an atom: 
"It is well, Neekewa," she spoke softly. "I have gone through the clouds to where lives Oo-Mee,
the Pigeon. I found her crying in a trail. I whispered to her and happiness came, and that
happiness is going to live--for Neekewa and The Pigeon. It cannot die. It cannot be killed.
The Red Coated men of the Great White Father will never destroy it. You will live. She will
live. You will meet again--in happiness. And happiness will follow ever after. That much I
learned, Neekewa. In happiness--you will meet again."

This is an atom: 
"Where? When?" whispered Jolly Roger, his heart beating with sudden swiftness.

This is an atom: 
Again Yellow Bird passed her hand over her eyes, and as she held it there for a moment she
bowed her head until Jolly Roger could see only her dew-wet hair and she said,

This is an atom: 
"In the Country Beyond, Neekewa."

This is an atom: 
Her eyes were looking at him again, big, dark and filled with mystery.

This is an atom: 
"And where is this country, Yellow Bird?" he asked, a strange chill driving the warmth out
of his heart. "You mean--up there?" And he pointed to the gray sky above them.

This is an atom: 
"No, it is happiness to come in life, not in death," said Yellow Bird slowly. "It is not beyond
the stars. It is--"

This is an atom: 
He waited, leaning toward her.

This is an atom: 
"In the Country Beyond," she repeated with a tired little droop of her head. "And where that
is I do not know, Neekewa. I could not pass beyond the great white cloud that shut me out.
But it is-- somewhere, I will find it. And then I will tell you--and The Pigeon."

This is an atom: 
She stood up, and swayed in the gray light, like one worn out by hard travel. Then she passed
into the tepee, and Jolly Roger heard her fall on her blanket-bed.

This is an atom: 
And still stranger whisperings filled his heart as he faced the east, where the first red blush
of day drove back the star-mists of dawn. He heard a step in the soft sand, and Slim Buck stood
beside him. And he asked.

This is an atom: 
"Did you ever hear of the Country Beyond?" Slim Buck shook his head, and both looked in silence
toward the rising sun.

This is an atom: 
Peter was glad when the camp roused itself out of sleep with waking voices, and laughter, and
the building of fires. He waited eagerly for Sun Cloud. At last she came out of Yellow Bird's
tepee, rubbing her eyes in the face of the glow in the east, and then her white teeth flashed
a smile of welcome at him. Together they ran down to the edge of the lake, and Peter wagged
his tail while Sun Cloud went out knee-deep and scrubbed her pretty face with handfuls of the
cool water. It was a happy day for him. He was different from the Indian dogs, and Sun Cloud
and her playmates made much of him. But never, even in their most exciting play, did he entirely
lose track of his master.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger, to an extent, forgot Peter. He tried to deaden within him the impulses which Yellow
Bird's conjuring had roused. He tried to see in them a menace and a danger, and he repeated
to himself the folly of placing credence in Yellow Bird's "medicine." But his efforts were
futile, and he was honest enough to admit it. The uneasiness was in his breast. A new hope
was rising up. And with that hope were fear and suspense, for deep in him was growing stronger
the conviction that what Yellow Bird would tell him would be true. He noted the calm and dignified
stiffness with which Slim Buck greeted the day. The young chief passed quietly among his people.
A word traveled in whispers, voices and footsteps were muffled and before the sun was an hour
high there was no tepee standing but one on that white strip of beach. And the one tepee was
Yellow Bird's,

This is an atom: 
Not until the camp was gone, leaving her alone, did Yellow Bird come out into the day. She
saw the food placed at her tepee door. She saw the empty places where the homes of her people
had stood, and in the wet sand of the beach the marks of their missing canoes. Then she turned
her pale face and tired eyes to the sun, and unbraided her hair so that it streamed glistening
all about her and covered the white sand when she sat down again in front of the smoke-darkened
canvas that had become her conjurer's house.

This is an atom: 
Two miles up the beach Slim Buck's people made another camp. But Slim Buck and Jolly Roger
remained in the cover of a wooded headland only half a mile from Yellow Bird. They saw her
when she came out. They watched for an hour after she sat down in the sand. And then Slim Buck
grunted, and with a gesture of his hands said they would go. Jolly Roger protested. It was
not safe for Yellow Bird to remain entirely beyond their protection. There were bears prowling
about. And human beasts occasionally found their way through the wilderness. But Slim Buck's
face was like a bronze carving in its faith and pride.

This is an atom: 
"Yellow Bird only goes with the good spirits," he assured Jolly Roger. "She does not do witchcraft
with the bad. And no harm can come while the good spirits are with her. It is thus she has
brought us happiness and prosperity since the days of the famine, Neekewa!"

This is an atom: 
He spoke these words in Cree, and McKay answered him in Cree as they turned in the direction
of the camp. Half way, Sun Cloud came to meet them, with Peter at her side. She put a brown
little hand in Jolly Roger's. It was quite new and pleasant to be kissed as Jolly Roger had
kissed her, and she held up her mouth to him again. Then she ran ahead, with Peter yipping
foolishly and happily at her moccasined heels.

This is an atom: 
And Jolly Roger said,

This is an atom: 
"I wish I was your brother, Slim Buck, and Nada was Yellow Bird's sister--and that I had many
like her," and his eyes followed Sun Cloud with hungry yearning.

This is an atom: 
And as he said these words, Yellow Bird sat with bowed head and closed eyes, with the soft
tress of Nada's hair in her hands. It was the physical union between them, and all that day,
and the night that followed, Yellow Bird held it in her hand or against her breast as she struggled
to send out the soul that was in her on its mission to Oo-Mee the Pigeon. In darkness she buried
the food that was left her, and stamped on it with her feet. The sacrifice of her body had
begun, and for two days thereafter Jolly Roger and Slim Buck saw no movement of life about
the lone tepee in the sand.

This is an atom: 
But the third morning they saw the smoke of a little greenwood fire rising straight up from
in front of it.

This is an atom: 
Slim Buck drew in a deep breath. It was the signal fire.

This is an atom: 
"She knows," he said, pointing for Jolly Roger to go. "She is calling you!"

This is an atom: 
The tenseness was gone from the bronze muscles of his face. He was lonely without Yellow Bird,
and the signal fire meant she would be with him again soon. Jolly Roger walked swiftly over
the white beach. Again he tried to tell himself what folly it all was, and that he was answering
the signal-fire only to humor Yellow Bird and Slim Buck. But words, even spoken half aloud,
did not quiet the eager beating of his heart.

This is an atom: 
Not until he was very near did Yellow Bird come out of the tepee. And it was then Jolly Roger
stopped short, a gasp on his lips. She was changed. Her radiant hair was still down, polished
smooth; but her face was whiter than he had ever seen it, and drawn and pinched almost as in
the days of the famine. For two days and two nights she had taken no food, and for two days
and two nights she had not slept. But there was triumph in her big, wide-open eyes, and Jolly
Roger felt something strange rising up in his breast.

This is an atom: 
Yellow Bird held out her hands toward him.

This is an atom: 
"We have been together, The Pigeon and I," she said. "We have slept in each other's arms, and
the warmth of her head has lain against my breast. I have learned the secrets, Neekewa--all
but one. The spirits will not tell me where lies the Country Beyond. But it is not up there--beyond
the stars. It is not in death, but in life you will find it. That they have told me. And you
must not go back to where The Pigeon lives, for you will find black desolation there--but always
you must keep on and on, seeking for the Country Beyond. You will find it. And there also you
will find The Pigeon--and happiness. You cannot fail, Neekewa, yet my heart stings me that
I cannot tell you where that strange country is. But when I came to it gold and silver clouds
shut it in, and I could see nothing, and yet out of it came the singing of birds and the promise
of sweet voices that it shall be found--if you seek faithfully, Neekewa. I am glad."

This is an atom: 
Each word that she spoke in her soft and tremulous Cree was a new message of hope in the empty
heart of Jolly Roger McKay. The world might laugh. Men might tap their heads and smile. His
own voice might argue and taunt. But deep in his heart he believed.

This is an atom: 
Something of the radiance of the new day came into his face, even as it was returning into
Yellow Bird's. He looked about him--east, west, north and south--upon the sunlit glory of water
and earth, and suddenly he reached out his arms.

This is an atom: 
"I'll find it, Yellow Bird," he cried. "I'll find this place you call the Country Beyond! And
when I do--"

This is an atom: 
He turned and took one of Yellow Bird's slim hands in both his own.

This is an atom: 
"And when I do, we'll come back to you, Yellow Bird," he said.

This is an atom: 
And like a cavalier of old he touched his lips gently to the palm of Yellow Bird's little brown
hand.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XI

This is an atom: 
Days of new hope and gladness followed in the camp of Yellow Bird and Slim Buck. It was as
if McKay, after a long absence, had come back to his own people. The tenderness of mother and
sister lay warm in Yellow Bird's breast. Slim Buck loved him as a brother. The wrinkled faces
of the old softened when he came near and spoke to them; little children followed him, and
at dusk and dawn Sun Cloud held up her mouth to be kissed. For the first time in years McKay
felt as if he had found home. The northland Indian Summer held the world in its drowsy arms,
and the sun-filled days and the starry nights seemed overflowing with the promise of all time.
Each day he put off his going until tomorrow, and each day Slim Buck urged him to remain with
them always.

This is an atom: 
But in Yellow Bird's eyes was a strange, quiet mystery, and she did not urge. Each day and
night she was watching--and waiting.

This is an atom: 
And at last that for which she watched and waited came to pass.

This is an atom: 
It was night, a dark, still night with a creeping restlessness in it. This restlessness was
like the ghostly pulse of a great living body, still for a time, then moving, hiding, whispering
between the clouds in the sky and the deeper shadowed earth below. A night of uneasiness, of
unseen forces chained and stifled, of impending doubt and oppressive lifelessness.

This is an atom: 
There was no wind, yet under the stars gray masses of cloud sped as if in flight.

This is an atom: 
There was no breeze in the treetops, yet they whispered and sighed.

This is an atom: 
In the strange spell of this midnight, heavy with its unrest, the wilderness lay half asleep,
half awake, with the mysterious stillness of death enshrouding it.

This is an atom: 
At the edge of the white sands of Wollaston, whose broad water was like oil tonight, stood
the tepees of Yellow Bird's people. Smoke- blackened and seasoned by wind and rain they were
dark blotches sentineling the shore of the big lake. Behind them, beyond the willows, were
the Indian dogs. From them came an occasional whine, a deep sigh, the snapping of a jaw, and
in the gloom their bodies moved restlessly. In the tepees was the spell of this same unrest.
Sleep was never quite sure of itself. Men, women and little children twisted and rolled, or
lay awake, and weird and distorted shapes and fancies came in dreams.

This is an atom: 
In her tepee Yellow Bird lay with her eyes wide open, staring at the gray blur of the smoke
hole above. Her husband was asleep. Sun Cloud, tossing on her blankets, had flung one of her
long braids so that it lay across her mother's breast. Yellow Bird's slim fingers played with
its silken strands as she looked straight up into nothingness. Wide awake, she was thinking--thinking
as Slim Buck--would never be able to think, back to the days when a white woman had been her
goddess, and when a little white boy--the woman's son--had called Yellow Bird "my fairy."

This is an atom: 
In the gloom, with foreboding eating at her heart, Yellow Bird's red lips parted in a smile
as those days came back to her, for they were pleasing days to think about. But after that
the years sped swiftly in her mind until the day when the little boy--a man grown--came to
save her tribe, and her own life, and the life of Sun Cloud, and of Slim Buck her husband.
Since then prosperity and happiness had been her lot. The spirits had been good. They had not
let her grow old, but had kept her still beautiful. And Sun Cloud, her little daughter, was
beautiful, and Slim Buck was more than ever her god among men, and her people were happy. And
all this she owed to the man who was sleeping under the gloom of the sky outside, the hunted
man, the outlaw, "the little boy grown up"--Jolly Roger McKay.

This is an atom: 
As she listened, and stared up at the smoke hole, strange spirits were whispering to her, and
Yellow Bird's blood ran a little faster and her eyes grew bigger and brighter in the darkness.
They seemed to be accusing her. They told her it was because of her that Roger McKay had come
in that winter of starvation and death, and had robbed and almost killed, that she and Slim
Buck and little Sun Cloud might live. That was the beginning, and the thrill of it had got
into the blood of Neekewa, her "little white brother grown up." And now he was out there, alone
with his dog in the night--and the red-coated avengers of the law were hunting him. They wanted
him for many things, but chiefly for the killing of a man.

This is an atom: 
Yellow Bird sat up, her little hands clenched about the thick braid of Sun Cloud's hair. She
had conjured with the spirits and had let the soul go out of her body that she might learn
the future for Neekewa, her white brother. And they had told her that Roger McKay had done
right to think of killing.

This is an atom: 
Their voices had whispered to her that he would not suffer more than he had already suffered--and
that in the Country Beyond he would find Nada the white girl, and happiness, and peace. Yellow
Bird did not disbelieve. Her faith was illimitable. The spirits would not lie. But the unrest
of the night was eating at her heart. She tried to lift herself to the whisperings above the
tepee top. But they were unintelligible, like many voices mingling, and with them came a dull
fear into her soul.

This is an atom: 
She put out a hand, as if to rouse Slim Buck. Then she drew it back, and placed Sun Cloud's
braid away from her. She rose to her feet so quietly that even in their restlessness they did
not fully awake. Through the tepee door she went, and stood up straight in the night, as if
now she might hear more clearly, and understand.

This is an atom: 
For a space she breathed in the oppressive something that was in the air, and her eyes went
east and west for sign of storm. But there was no threat of storm. The clouds were drifting
slowly and softly, with starlight breaking through their rifts, and there was no moan of thunder
or wail of wind far away. Her heart, for a little, seemed to stop its beating, and her hands
clasped tightly at her breast. She began to understand, and a strange thrill crept into her.
The spirits had put a great burden upon the night so that it might drive sleep from her eyes.
They were warning her. They were telling her of danger, approaching swiftly, almost impending.
And it was peril for the white man who was sleeping somewhere near.

This is an atom: 
Swiftly she began seeking for him, her naked little brown feet making no sound in the soft
white sands of Wollaston.

This is an atom: 
And as she sought, the clouds thinned out above, and the stars shone through more clearly,
as if to make easier for her the quest in the gloom.

This is an atom: 
Where he had made his bed of blankets in the sand, close beside a flat mass of water-washed
sandstone, Jolly Roger lay half asleep. Peter was wide awake. His eyes gleamed brightly and
watchfully. His lank and bony body was tense and alert. He did not whine or snap his jaws,
though he heard the Indian dogs occasionally doing so. The comradeship of a fugitive, ever
on the watch for his fellow men, had made him silent and velvet-footed, and had sharpened his
senses to the keenness of knives. He, too, felt the impelling force of an approaching menace
in this night of stillness and mystery, and he watched closely the restless movements of his
master's body, and listened with burning eyes to the name which he had spoken three times in
the last five minutes of his sleep.

This is an atom: 
It was Nada's name, and as Jolly Roger cried it out softly in the old way, as if Nada was standing
before them, he reached out, and his hands struck the sandstone rock. His eyes opened, and
slowly he sat up. The sky had cleared of clouds, and there was starlight, and in that starlight
Jolly Roger saw a figure standing near him in the sand. At first he thought it was Sun Cloud,
for Peter stood with his head raised to her. Then he saw it was Yellow Bird, with her beautiful
eyes looking at him steadily and strangely as he awakened.

This is an atom: 
He got upon his feet and went to her, and took one of her hands. It was cold. He felt the shiver
that ran through her slim body, and suddenly her eyes swept from him out into the night.

This is an atom: 
"Listen, Neekewa!"

This is an atom: 
Her fingers tightened in his hand. For a space he could hear the beating of her heart.

This is an atom: 
"Twice I have heard it," she whispered then. "Neekewa, you must go!"

This is an atom: 
"Heard what?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
She shook her head.

This is an atom: 
"Something--I don't know what. But it tells me there is danger. And I saw danger over the tepee
top, and I have heard whisperings of it all about me. It is coming. It is coming slowly and
cautiously. It is very near. Hark, Neekewa! Was that not a sound out on the water?"

This is an atom: 
"I think it was the wing of a duck, Yellow Bird."

This is an atom: 
"And THAT!" she cried swiftly, her fingers tightening still more. "That sound--as if wood strikes
on wood!"

This is an atom: 
"The croak of a loon far up the shore, Yellow Bird."

This is an atom: 
She drew her hand away.

This is an atom: 
"Neekewa, listen to me," she importuned him in Cree. "The spirits have made this night heavy
with warning. I could not sleep. Sun Cloud twitches and moans. Slim Buck whispers to himself.
You were crying out the name of Nada--Oo-Mee the Pigeon--when I came to you. I know. It is
danger. It is very near. And it is danger for you."

This is an atom: 
"And only a short time ago you were confident happiness and peace were coming to me, Yellow
Bird," reminded Jolly Roger. "The spirits, you said, promised the law should never get me,
and I would find Nada again in that strange place you called the Country Beyond. Have the spirits
changed their message, because the night is heavy?"

This is an atom: 
Yellow Bird's eyes were staring into darkness.

This is an atom: 
"No, they have not changed," she whispered. "They have spoken the truth. They want to tell
me more, but for some reason it is impossible. They have tried to tell me where lies this place
they call the Country Beyond--where you will again find Oo-Mee the Pigeon. But a cloud always
comes between. And they are trying to tell me what the danger is off there--in the darkness."
Suddenly she caught his arm. "Nee-kewa, DID YOU HEAR?"

This is an atom: 
"A fish leaping in the still water, Yellow Bird."

This is an atom: 
He heard a low whimper in Peter's throat, and looking down he saw Peter's muzzle pointing toward
the thick cloud of gloom over the lake.

This is an atom: 
"What is it, Pied-Bot?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
Peter whimpered again.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger touched the cold hand that rested on his arm.

This is an atom: 
"Go back to your bed, Yellow Bird. There is only one danger for me--the red-coated police.
And they do not travel in the dark hours of a night like this."

This is an atom: 
"They are coming," she replied. "I cannot hear or see, but they are coming!"

This is an atom: 
Her fingers tightened.

This is an atom: 
"And they are near," she cried softly.

This is an atom: 
"You are nervous, Yellow Bird," he said, thinking of the two days and three nights of her conjuring,
when she had neither slept nor taken food, that she might more successfully commune with the
spirits. "There is no danger. The night is a hard one for sleep. It has frightened you."

This is an atom: 
"It has warned me," she persisted, standing as motionless as a statue at his side. "Neekewa,
the spirits do not forget. They have not forgotten that winter when you came, and my people
were dying of famine and sickness--when I dreaded to see little Sun Cloud close her eyes even
in sleep, fearing she would never open them again. They have not forgotten how all that winter
you robbed the white people over on the Des Chenes, that we might live. If they remember those
things, and lie, I would not be afraid to curse them. But they do not lie."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger McKay did not answer. Deep down in him that strange something was at work again,
compelling him to believe Yellow Bird. She did not look at him, but in her low Cree voice,
soft as the mellow notes of a bird, she was saying:

This is an atom: 
"You will be going very soon, Neekewa, and I shall not see you again for a long time. Do not
forget what I have told you. And you must believe. Somewhere there is this place called the
Country Beyond. The spirits have said so. And it is there you will find your Oo-Mee the Pigeon--and
happiness. But if you go back to the place where you left The Pigeon when you fled from the
red-coated men of the law, you will find only blackness and desolation. Believe, and you shall
be guided. If you disbelieve--"

This is an atom: 
She stopped.

This is an atom: 
"You heard that, Neekewa? It was not the wing of a duck, nor was it the croak of a loon far
up the shore, or a fish leaping in the still water. IT WAS A PADDLE!"

This is an atom: 
In the star-gloom Jolly Roger McKay bowed his head, and listened.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, a paddle," he said, and his voice sounded strange to him. "Probably it is one of your
people returning to camp, Yellow Bird."

This is an atom: 
She turned toward him, and stood very near. Her hands reached out to him. Her hair and eyes
were filled with the velvety glow of the stars, and for an instant he saw the tremble of her
parted lips.

This is an atom: 
"Goodby, Neekewa," she whispered.

This is an atom: 
And then, without letting her hands touch him, she was gone. Swiftly she ran to Slim Buck's
tepee, and entered, and very soon she came out again with Slim Buck beside her. Jolly Roger
did not move, but watched as Yellow Bird and her husband went down to the edge of the lake,
and stood there, waiting for the strange canoe to pass--or come in. It was approaching. Slowly
it came up, an indistinct shadow at first, but growing clearer, until at last he could see
the silhouette of it against the star-silvered water beyond. There were two people in it. Before
the canoe reached the shore Slim Buck stood out knee-deep in the water and hailed it.

This is an atom: 
A voice answered. And at the sound of that voice McKay dropped like a shot beside Peter, and
Peter's lips curled up, and he snarled. His master's hand warned him, and together they slipped
back into the shadows, and from under a piece of canvas Jolly Roger dragged forth his pack,
and quietly strapped it over his shoulders while he waited and listened.

This is an atom: 
And then, as he heard the voice again, he grinned, and chuckled softly.

This is an atom: 
"It's Cassidy, Pied-Bot! We can't lose that redheaded fox, can we?"

This is an atom: 
A good humored deviltry lay in his eyes, and Peter--looking up-- thought for a moment his master
was laughing. Then Jolly Roger made a megaphone of his hands, and called very clearly out into
the night.

This is an atom: 
"Ho, Cassidy! Is that you, Cassidy?"

This is an atom: 
Peter's heart was choking him as he listened. He sensed a terrific danger. There was no sound
at the edge of the lake. There was no sound anywhere. For a few moments a death-like stillness
followed Jolly Roger's words.

This is an atom: 
Then a voice came in answer, each word cutting the gloom with the decisive clearness of a bullet
coming from a gun.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, this is Cassidy--Corporal Terence Cassidy, of 'M' Division, Royal Northwest Mounted Police.
Is that you, McKay?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes, it's me," replied Jolly Roger. "Does the wager still hold, Cassidy?"

This is an atom: 
"It holds."

This is an atom: 
There was a shadowy movement on the beach. The voice came again.

This is an atom: 
"Watch yourself, McKay. If I see you I shall fire!"

This is an atom: 
With drawn gun Cassidy rushed toward the spot where Jolly Roger and Peter had stood. It was
empty now, except for the bit of old canvas. Cassidy's Indian came up and stood behind him,
and for many minutes they listened for the crackling of brush. Slim Buck joined them, and last
came Yellow Bird, her dark eyes glowing like pools of fire in their excitement. Cassidy looked
at her, marveling at her beauty, and suspicious of something that was in her face. He went
back to the beach. There he caught himself short, astonishment bringing a sharp exclamation
from his lips.

This is an atom: 
His canoe and outfit were gone!

This is an atom: 
Out of the star-gloom behind him floated a soft ripple of laughter as Yellow Bird ran to her tepee.

This is an atom: 
And from the mist of water--far out--came a voice, the voice of Jolly Roger McKay.

This is an atom: 
"Goodby, Cassidy!"

This is an atom: 
With it mingled the defiant bark of a dog.

This is an atom: 
In her tepee, a moment later, Yellow Bird drew Sun Cloud's glossy head close against her warm
breast, and turned her radiant face up thankfully to the smoke hole in the tepee top, through
which the spirits had whispered their warning to her. Indistinctly, and still farther away,
her straining ears heard again the cry,

This is an atom: 
"Goodby, Cassidy!"

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XII

This is an atom: 
In Cassidy's canoe, driving himself with steady strokes deeper into the mystery of the starlit
waters of Wollaston, Jolly Roger felt the night suddenly filled with an exhilarating tonic.
Its deadness was gone. Its weight had lifted. A ripple broke the star gleams where an increasing
breeze touched the surface of the lake. And the thrill of adventure stirred in his blood. He
laughed as he put his skill and strength in the sweep of his paddle, and for a time the thought
that he was an outlaw, and in losing Nada had lost everything in life worth righting for, was
not so oppressive. It was the old, joyous laugh, stirred by his sense of humor, and the trick
he had played on Cassidy. He could imagine Cassidy back on the shore, his temper redder than
his hair as he cursed and tore up the sand in his search for another canoe.

This is an atom: 
"We're inseparable," Jolly Roger explained to Peter. "Wherever I go, Cassidy is sure to follow.
You see, it's this way. A long time ago someone gave Cassidy what they call an assignment,
and in that assignment it says 'go get Jolly Roger McKay, dead or alive'--or something to that
effect. And Cassidy has been on the job ever since. But he can't quite catch up with me, Pied-Bot.
I'm always a little ahead."

This is an atom: 
And yet, even as he laughed, there was in Jolly Roger's heart a yearning to which he had never
given voice. Half a dozen times he might have killed Cassidy, and an equal number of times
Cassidy might have killed him. But neither had taken advantage of the opportunity to destroy.
They had played the long and thrilling game like men, and because of the fairness and sportsmanship
of the man who hunted him Jolly Roger thought of Cassidy as he might have thought of a brother,
and more than once he yearned to go to him, and hold out his hand in friendship. Yet he knew
Corporal Cassidy was the deadliest menace the earth held for him, a menace that had followed
him like a shadow through months and years-- across the Barren Lands, along the rim of the
Arctic, down the Mackenzie, and back again--a menace that never tired, and was never far behind
in that ten thousand miles of wilderness they had covered. Together in the bloodstirring game
of One against One they had faced the deadliest perils of the northland. They had gone hungry,
and cold, and more than once a thousand miles of nothingness lay behind them, and death seemed
preferable to anything that might lie ahead. Yet in that aloneness, when companionship was
more precious than anything else on earth, neither had cried quits. The game had gone on, Cassidy
after his man--and Jolly Roger McKay fighting for his freedom.

This is an atom: 
As he headed his canoe north and east, Jolly Roger thought again of the wager made weeks ago
down at Cragg's Ridge, when he had turned the tables on Cassidy and when Cassidy had made a
solemn oath to resign from the service if he failed to get his man in their next encounter.
He knew Cassidy would keep his word, and something told him that tonight the last act in this
tragedy of two had begun. He chuckled again as he pictured the probable course of events on
shore. Cassidy, backed by the law, was demanding another canoe and a necessary outfit of Slim
Buck. Slim Buck, falling back on his tribal dignity, was killing all possible time in making
the preparations. When pursuit was resumed Jolly Roger would have at least a mile the start
of the red-headed nemesis who hung to his trail. And Wollaston Lake, sixty miles from end to
end, and half as wide, offered plenty of room in which to find safety.

This is an atom: 
The rising of the wind, which came from the south and west, was pleasing to Jolly Roger, and
he put less caution and more force into the sweep of his paddle. For two hours he kept steadily
eastward, and then swung a little north, guiding himself by the stars. With the breaking of
dawn he made out the thickly wooded shore on the opposite side of the lake from Slim Buck's
camp, and before the sun was half an hour high he had drawn up his canoe at the tip of a headland
which gave him a splendid view of the lake in all directions.

This is an atom: 
From this point, comfortably encamped in the cool shadows of a thick clump of spruce, Jolly
Roger and Peter watched all that day for a sign of their enemy. As far as the eye could reach
no movement of human life appeared on the quiet surface of Wollaston. Not until that hazy hour
between sunset and dusk did he build a fire and cook a meal from the supplies in Cassidy's
pack, for he knew smoke could be discerned much farther than a canoe. Yet even as he observed
this caution he was confident there was no longer any danger in returning to Yellow Bird and
her people.

This is an atom: 
"You see, Pied-Bot," he said, discussing the matter with Peter, while he smoked a pipeful of
tobacco in the early evening, "Cassidy thinks we're on our way north, as fast as we can go.
He'll hit for the upper end of the Lake and the Black River waterway, and keep right on into
the Porcupine country. It's a big country up there, and we've always taken plenty of space
for our travels. Shall we go back to Yellow Bird, Peter? And Sun Cloud?"

This is an atom: 
Peter tried to answer, and thumped his tail, but even as he asked the questions there was a
doubt growing in Jolly Roger's mind. He wanted to go back, and as darkness gathered about him
he was urged by a great loneliness. Only Yellow Bird grieved with him in his loss of Nada,
and understood how empty life had become for him. She had, in a way, become a part of Nada;
her presence raised him out of despair, her voice gave him hope, her unconquerable spirit --fighting
for his happiness--inspired him until he saw light where there had been only darkness. The
impelling desire to return to her brought him to his feet and down to the pebbly shore of the
lake, where the water rippled softly in the thickening gloom. But a still more powerful force
held him back, and he went to his blankets, spread over a thick couch of balsam boughs. For
hours his eyes were wide open and sleepless.

This is an atom: 
He no longer thought of Cassidy, but of Yellow Bird. Doubt--a charitable inclination to half
believe--gave way in him to a conviction which he could not fight down. More than once in his
years of wilderness life strange facts had compelled him to give some credence to the power
of the Indian conjurer. Belief in the mastery of the mind was part of his faith in nature.
It had come to him from his mother, who had lived and died in the strength of her creed.

This is an atom: 
"Think hard, and with faith, if you want anything to come true," she had told him. And this
was also Yellow Bird's creed. Was it possible she had told him the truth? Had her mind actually
communed with the mind of Nada? Had she, through the sheer force of her illimitable faith,
projected her subconscious self into the future that she might show him the way? His eyes were
staring, his ears unhearing, as he thought of the proof which Yellow Bird had given to him.
A few hours ago she had brought him warning of impending danger. There had been no hesitation
and no doubt. She had come to him unequivocal and sure. Without seeing, without hearing, she
knew Cassidy was stealing upon him through the night.

This is an atom: 
In the darkness Jolly Roger sat up, his heart beating fast. Without effort, and with no thought
of the necessity of proof, Yellow Bird had given him a test of her power. It had been a spontaneous
and unstaged thing, a woman's heart reaching out for him--as she had promised that it would.
And yet, even as the simplicity and truth of it pressed upon him, doubt followed with its questions.
If, after this, Yellow Bird had told him to return to Nada as swiftly as he could, he would
have believed, and this night would have seen him on his way. But she had warned him against
this, predicting desolation and grief if he returned. She had urged him to go on, somewhere,
anywhere, seeking for an illusion and an unreality which the spirits had named, to her as the
Country Beyond. And when he reached this Country Beyond, wherever it might be, he would possess
Nada again, and happiness for all time. After all, there was something archaically crude in
what he was trying to believe, when he came to analyze it. Yellow Bird possessed her powers,
but they were definitely limited. And to believe beyond those limitations, to ride upon the
wings of superstition and imagination, was sheer savagery.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger stretched himself upon his blankets again, repeating this final argument to himself.
But as the night drew closer about him, and his eyes closed, and sleep came, there was a lightness
in his heart which he had not known for many days. He dreamed, and his dream was of Nada. He
was with her again and it seemed, in this dream, that Yellow Bird was always watching them,
and they could not quite get away from her. They ran through the jackpine openings where the
strawberries and blue violets grew, and he always ran behind Nada, so he could see her brown
curls flying about her.

This is an atom: 
But they never could rid themselves of Yellow Bird, no matter how fast they ran or where they
tried to hide. From somewhere Yellow Bird's dark eyes would look out at them, and finally,
laughing at his own discomfiture, he drew Nada down beside him in a little fen, white and yellow
and blue with wildflowers, and boldly took her head in his arms and kissed her--with Yellow
Bird looking at them from behind a banksian clump twenty feet away. So real was the kiss, and
so real the warm pressure of Nada's slim arms about his neck that he awoke with a glad cry--and
sat up to find the dawn had come.

This is an atom: 
For a few moments he sat stupidly, looking about him as if not quite believing the unreality
of it all. Then with Peter he went down to the edge of the lake.

This is an atom: 
All that day Peter sensed a quiet change in his master. Jolly Roger did not talk. He did not
whistle or laugh, but moved quietly when he moved at all, with a set, strange look in his face.
He was making his last big fight against the desire to return to Cragg's Ridge. Yellow Bird's
predictions, and her warning, had no influence with him now. He was thinking of Nada alone.
She was back there, waiting for him, praying for his return, ready and happy to become a fugitive
with him--to accept her chances of life or death, of happiness or grief, in his company. A
dozen times the determination to return for her almost won. But each time came the other picture--a
vision of ceaseless flight, of hiding, of hunger and cold and never ending hardship, and at
the last, inevitable as the dawning of another day--prison, and possibly the hangman.

This is an atom: 
Not until late that afternoon did Peter see the old Jolly Roger in the face of his master.
And Jolly Roger said:

This is an atom: 
"We've made up our mind, Pied-Bot. We can't go back. We'll hit north and spend the winter along
the edge of the Barren Lands. It's the biggest country I know of, and if Cassidy comes--"

This is an atom: 
He shrugged his shoulders grimly.

This is an atom: 
In half an hour they had started, with the sun beginning to sink in the west.

This is an atom: 
For two days Jolly Roger and Peter paddled their way slowly up the eastern shore of Wollaston.
That he had correctly analyzed the mental arguments which would guide Cassidy in his pursuit
Jolly Roger had little doubt. He would keep to the west shore, and up through the Hatchet Lake
and Black River waterways, as his quarry had never failed to hit straight for the farther north
in time of peril. Meanwhile Jolly Roger had decided to make his way without haste up the east
shore of Wollaston, and paddle north and east through the Du Brochet and Thiewiaza River waterways.
If these courses were followed, each hour would add to the distance between them, and when
the way was safe they would head straight for the Barren Lands.

This is an atom: 
Peter, and only Peter, sensed the glory of that third afternoon when they paddled slowly ashore
close to the shimmering stream of spring water that was called Limping Moose Creek. The sun
was still two hours high in the west. There was no wind, and Wollaston was like a mirror; yet
in the still air was the clean, cool tang of early autumn, and shoreward the world reached
out in ridges and billows of tinted forests, with a September haze pulsing softly over them,
fleecy as the misty shower of a lady's powder puff. It was destined to be a memorable afternoon
for Peter, a going down of the sun that he would never forget as long as he lived.

This is an atom: 
Yet there was no warning of the thing impending, and his eyes saw only the mystery and wonder
of the big world, and his ears heard only the drowsing murmur of it, and his nose caught only
the sweet scents of cedars and balsams and of flowering and ripening things. Straight ahead,
beyond the white shore line, was a low ridge, and this ridge--where it was not purple and black
with the evergreen-- was red with the crimson blotches of mountain-ash berries, and patches
of fire flowers that glowed like flame in the setting sun.

This is an atom: 
From out of this paradise, as they drew near to it, came softly the voice and song of birds
and the chatter of red squirrels. A big jay was screeching over it all, and between the first
ridge and the second--which rose still higher beyond it--a cloud of crows were circling excitedly
over a mother black bear and her half grown cubs as they feasted on the red ash berries. But
Peter could not smell the bears, nor hear them, and the distant crows were of less interest
than the wonder and mystery of the shore close at hand.

This is an atom: 
He turned from his place in the bow of the canoe, and looked at his master. There was little
of inspiration in Jolly Roger's face or eyes. The glory of the world ahead gave him no promise,
as it gave promise to Peter. Beyond what he could see there lay, for him, a vast emptiness,
a chaos of loneliness, an eternity of shattered hopes and broken dreams. Love of life was gone
out of him. He saw no beauty. The sun had changed. The sky was different. The bigness of his
wilderness no longer thrilled him, but oppressed him.

This is an atom: 
Peter sensed sharply the change in his master without knowing the reason for it. Just as the
world had changed for Jolly Roger, so Jolly Roger had changed for Peter.

This is an atom: 
They landed on a beach of sand, soft as a velvet carpet. Peter jumped out. A long-legged sandpiper
and her mate ran down the shore ahead of him. He perked up his angular ears, and then his nose
caught a fresh scent under his feet where a porcupine had left his trail. And he heard more
clearly the raucous tumult of the jay and the musical chattering of the red squirrels.

This is an atom: 
All these things were satisfactory to Peter. They were life, and life thrilled him, just as
it had thrilled his master a few days ago. He adventured a little distance up to the edge of
the green willows and the young birch and the crimson masses of fire flowers that fringed the
beginning of the forest. It had rained recently here, and the scents were fresh and sweet.

This is an atom: 
He found a wild currant bush, glistening with its juscious black berries, and began nibbling
at them. A gopher, coming to his supper bush, gave a little squeak of annoyance, and Peter
saw the bright eyes of the midget glaring at him from under a big fern leaf. Peter wagged his
tail, for the savagery of his existence was qualified by that mellowing sense of humor which
had always been a part of his master. He yipped softly, in a companionable sort of way.

This is an atom: 
And then there smote upon his ears a sound which hardened every muscle in his body.

This is an atom: 
"Throw up your hands, McKay!"

This is an atom: 
He turned his head. Close to him stood a man. In an instant he had recognized him. It was the
man whose scent he had first discovered down at Cragg's Ridge, the man from whom his master
was always running away, the man whose voice he had heard again at Yellow Bird's Camp a few
nights ago--Corporal Terence Cassidy, of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police.

This is an atom: 
Twenty paces away stood McKay. His dunnage was on his back, his paddle in his hand. And Cassidy,
smiling grimly, a dangerous humor in his eyes, was leveling an automatic at his breast. It
was, in that instant, a tableau which no man could ever forget. Cassidy was bareheaded, and
the sun burned hotly in his red hair. And his face was red, and in the pale blue of his Irish
eyes was a fierce joy of achievement. At last, after months and years, the thrilling game of
One against One was at an end. Cassidy had made the last move, and he was winner.

This is an atom: 
For half a minute after the command to throw up his hands McKay did not move. And Cassidy did
not repeat the command, for he sensed the shock that had fallen upon his adversary, and was
charitable enough to give him time. And then, with something like a deep sigh from between
his lips, Jolly Roger's body sagged. The dunnage dropped from his shoulder to the sand. The
paddle slipped from his hand. Slowly he raised his arms above his head, and Cassidy laughed softly.

This is an atom: 
A few days ago McKay would have grinned back, coolly, good humoredly, appreciative of the other's
craftsmanship even in the hour of his defeat. But today there was another soul within him.

This is an atom: 
His eyes no longer saw the old Cassidy, brave and loyal to his duty, a chivalrous enemy, the
man he had yearned to love as brother loves brother, even in the hours of sharpest pursuit.
In Cassidy he saw now the hangman himself. The whole world had turned against him, and in this
hour of his greatest despair and hopelessness a bitter fate had turned up Cassidy to deal him
the finishing blow.

This is an atom: 
A swift rage burned in him, even as he raised his hands. It swept through his brain in a blinding
inundation. He did not think of the law, or of death, or of freedom. It was the unfairness
of the thing that filled his soul with the blackness of one last terrible desire for vengeance.
Cassidy's gun, leveled at his breast, meant nothing. A thousand guns leveled at his breast
would have meant nothing. A choking sound came from his lips, and like a shot his right hand
went to his revolver holster.

This is an atom: 
In that last second or two Cassidy had foreseen the impending thing, and with the movement
of the other's hand he cried out:

This is an atom: 
"Stop! For God's sake stop--or I shall fire!"

This is an atom: 
Even into the soul of Peter there came in that moment the electrical thrill of something terrific
about to happen, of impending death, of tragedy close at hand. Once, a long time ago, Peter
had felt another moment such as this--when he had buried his fangs in Jed Hawkins' leg to save
Nada.

This is an atom: 
In that fraction of a second which carried Peter through space, Corporal Cassidy's finger was
pressing the trigger of his automatic, for McKay's gun was half out of its holster. He was
aiming at the other's shoulder, somewhere not to kill.

This is an atom: 
The shock of Peter's assault came simultaneously with the explosion of his gun, and McKay heard
the hissing spit of the bullet past his ear. His arm darted out. And as Peter buried his teeth
deeper into Cassidy's leg, he heard a second shot, and knew that it came from his master. There
was no third. Cassidy drooped, and something like a little laugh came from him--only it was
not a laugh. His body sagged, and then crumpled down, so that the weight of him fell upon Peter.

This is an atom: 
For many seconds after that Jolly Roger stood with his gun in his hand, not a muscle of his
body moving, and with something like stupor in his staring eyes. Peter struggled out from under
Cassidy, and looked inquisitively from his master to the man who lay sprawled out like a great
spider upon the sand. It was then that life seemed to come back into Jolly Roger's body. His
gun fell, as if it was the last thing in the world to count for anything now, and with a choking
cry he ran to Cassidy and dropped upon his knees beside him.

This is an atom: 
"Cassidy--Cassidy--" he cried. "Good God, I didn't mean to do it! Cassidy, old pal--"

This is an atom: 
The agony in his voice stilled the growl in Peter's throat. McKay saw nothing for a space,
as he raised Cassidy's head and shoulders, and brushed back the mop of red hair. Everything
was a blur before his eyes. He had killed Cassidy. He knew it. He had shot to kill, and not
once in a hundred times did he miss his mark. At last he was what the law wanted him to be--a
murderer. And his victim was Cassidy--the man who had played him fairly and squarely from beginning
to end, the man who had never taken a mean advantage of him, and who had died there in the
white sand because he had not shot to kill. With sobbing breath he cried out his grief, and
then, looking down, he saw the miracle in Cassidy's face. The Irishman's eyes were wide open,
and there was pain, and also a grin, about his mouth.

This is an atom: 
"I'm glad you're sorry," he said. "I'd hate to have a bad opinion of you, McKay. But--you're
a rotten shot!"

This is an atom: 
His body sagged heavily, and the grin slowly left his lips, and a moan came from between them.
He struggled and spoke.

This is an atom: 
"It may be--you'll want help, McKay. If you do--there's a cabin half a mile up the creek. Saw
the smoke--heard axe--I don't blame you. You're a good sport--pretty quick--but--rotten shot!
Oh, Lord--such--rotten--shot--"

This is an atom: 
And he tried vainly to grin up into Jolly Roger's face as he became a lifeless weight in the
other's arms.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger was sobbing. He was sobbing, in a strange, hard man- fashion, as he tore open Cassidy's
shirt and saw the red wound that went clean through Cassidy's right breast just under the shoulder.
And Peter still heard that strange sound coming from his lips, a moaning as if for breath,
as his master ran and brought up water, and worked over the fallen man. And then he got under
Cassidy, and rose up with him on his shoulders, and staggered off with him toward the creek.
There he found a path, a narrow foot trail, and not once did he stop with his burden until
he came into a little clearing, out of which Cassidy had seen the smoke rising. In this clearing
was a cabin, and from the cabin came an old man to meet him--an old man and a girl.

This is an atom: 
At first something shot up into Peter's throat, for he thought it was Nada who came behind
the grizzled and white-headed man. There was the same lithe slimness in her body, the same
brown glint in her hair, and the same--but he saw then that it was not Nada. She was older.
She was a bit taller. And her face was white when she saw the bleeding burden on Jolly Roger's
back.

This is an atom: 
"I shot him," panted McKay. "God knows I didn't mean to! I'm afraid--"

This is an atom: 
He did not finish giving voice to the fear that Cassidy was dead-- or dying, and for a moment
he saw only the big staring eyes of the girl as the gray-bearded man helped him with his burden.
Not until the Irishman was on a cot in the cabin did he discover how childishly weak he had
become and what a terrific struggle he had made with the weight on his shoulders. He sank into
a chair, while the old trapper worked over Cassidy.

This is an atom: 
He heard the girl call him grandfather. She was no longer frightened, and she moved like a
swift bird about the cabin, getting water and bandages and pillows, and the sight of fresh
blood and of Cassidy's dead-white face brought a glow of tenderness into her eyes. McKay, sitting
dumbly, saw that her hands were doing twice the work his own could have accomplished, and not
until he heard a low moan from the wounded man did he come to her side.

This is an atom: 
"The bullet went through clean as a whistle," the old man said. "Lucky you don't use soft nosed
bullets, friend."

This is an atom: 
A deep sigh came from Cassidy's lips. His eyelids fluttered, and then slowly his eyes opened.
The girl was bending over him, and Cassidy saw only her face, and the brown sheen of her hair.

This is an atom: 
"He'll live?" Jolly Roger said tremulously.

This is an atom: 
The older man remained mute. It was Cassidy, turning his head a little, who answered weakly.

This is an atom: 
"Don't worry, McKay. I'll--live."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger bent over the cot, between Cassidy and the girl. Gently he took one of the wounded
man's hands in both his own.

This is an atom: 
"I'm sorry, old man," he whispered. "You won, fair and square. And I won't go far away. I'll
be waiting for you when you get on your feet. I promise that. I'll wait."

This is an atom: 
A wan smile came over Cassidy's lips, and then he moaned again, and his eyes closed. The girl
thrust Jolly Roger back.

This is an atom: 
"No--you better not go far, an' you better wait," she said, and there was an unspoken thing
in the dark glow of her eyes that made him think of Nada on that day when she told him how
Jed Hawkins had struck her in the cabin at Cragg's Ridge.

This is an atom: 
That night Jolly Roger made his camp close to the mouth of the Limping Moose. And for three
days thereafter his trail led only between this camp and the cabin of old Robert Baron and
his granddaughter, Giselle. All this time Cassidy was telling things in a fever. He talked
a great deal about Jolly Roger. And the girl, nursing him night and day, with scarcely a wink
of sleep between, came to believe they had been great comrades, and had been inseparable for
a long time. Even then she would not let McKay take her place at Cassidy's side. The third
day she started him off for a post sixty miles away to get a fresh supply of bandages and medicines.

This is an atom: 
It was evening, three days later, when Jolly Roger and Peter returned. The windows of the cabin
were brightly lighted, and McKay came up to one of these windows and looked in. Cassidy was
bolstered up in his cot. He was very much alive, and on the floor at his side, sitting on a
bear rug, was the girl. A lump rose in Jolly Roger's throat. Quietly he placed the bundle which
he had brought from the post close up against the door, and knocked. When Giselle opened it
he had disappeared into darkness, with Peter at his heels.

This is an atom: 
The next morning he found old Robert and said to him:

This is an atom: 
"I'm restless, and I'm going to move a little. I'll be back in two weeks. Tell Cassidy that,
will you?"

This is an atom: 
Ten minutes later he was paddling up the shore of Wollaston, and for a week thereafter he haunted
the creeks and inlets, always on the move. Peter saw him growing thinner each day. There was
less and less of cheer in his voice, seldom a smile on his lips, and never did his laugh ring
out as of old. Peter tried to understand, and Jolly Roger talked to him, but not in the old
happy way.

This is an atom: 
"We might have finished him, an' got rid of him for good," he said to Peter one chilly night
beside their campfire. "But we couldn't, just like we couldn't have brought Nada up here with
us. And we're going back. I'm going to keep that promise. We're going back, Peter, if we hang
for it!"

This is an atom: 
And Jolly Roger's jaw would set grimly as he measured the time between.

This is an atom: 
The tenth day came and he set out for the mouth of the Canoe River. On the afternoon of the
twelfth he paddled slowly into Limping Moose Creek. Without any reason he looked at his watch
when he started for old Robert's cabin. It was four o'clock. He was two days ahead of his promise,
and there was a bit of satisfaction in that. There was an odd thumping at his heart. He had
faith in Cassidy, a belief that the Irishman would call their affair a draw, and tell him to
take another chance in the big open. He was the sort of man to live up to the letter of a wager,
when it was honestly made. But, if he didn't--

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger paused long enough to take the cartridges from his gun. There would be no more
shooting'--on his part.

This is an atom: 
The mellow autumn sun was flooding the open door of the cabin when he came up. He heard laughter.
It was Giselle. She was talking, too. And then he heard a man's voice--and from far off to
his right came the chopping of an axe. Old Robert was at work. Giselle and Cassidy were at home.

This is an atom: 
He stepped up to the door, coughing to give notice of his approach. And then, suddenly, he
stopped, staring thunderstruck at what was happening within.

This is an atom: 
Terence Cassidy was sitting in a big chair. The girl was behind him. Her white arms were around
his neck, her face was bent down, her lips were kissing him.

This is an atom: 
In an instant Cassidy's eyes had caught him.

This is an atom: 
"Come in," he cried, so suddenly and so loudly that it startled the girl. "McKay, come in!"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger entered, and the girl stood up straight behind Cassidy's chair, her cheeks aflame
and her eyes filled with the glow of the sunset. And Terence Cassidy was grinning in that old
triumphant way as he leaned forward in his chair, gripping the arms of it with both hands.

This is an atom: 
"McKay, you've lost," he cried. "I'm the winner!"

This is an atom: 
In the same moment he took the girl's hand and drew her from behind his chair.

This is an atom: 
"Giselle, do as you said you were going to do. Prove to him that I've won."

This is an atom: 
Slowly she came to Jolly Roger. Her cheeks were like the red of the sunset. Her eyes were flaming.
Her lips were parted. And dumbly he waited, and wondered, until she stood close to him. Then,
swiftly, her arms were around his neck, and she kissed him. In an instant she was back on her
knees at the wounded man's side, her burning face hidden against him, and Cassidy was laughing,
and holding out both hands to McKay.

This is an atom: 
"McKay, Roger McKay, I want you to meet Mrs. Terence Cassidy, my wife," he said. And the girl
raised her face, so that her shining eyes were on Jolly Roger.

This is an atom: 
Still dumbly he stood where he was.

This is an atom: 
"The Missioner from Du Brochet was here yesterday, and married us," he heard Cassidy saying.
"And we've written out my resignation together, old man. We've both won. I thank God you put
that bullet into me down on the shore, for it's brought me paradise. And here's my hand on
it, McKay--forever and ever!"

This is an atom: 
Half an hour later, when McKay stumbled out into the forest trail again, his eyes were blinded
by tears and his heart choked by a new hope as big as the world itself. Yellow Bird was right,
and God must have been with her that night when her soul went to commune with Nada's. For Yellow
Bird had proved herself again. And now he believed her.

This is an atom: 
He believed in the world again. He believed in love and happiness and the glory of life, and
as he went down the narrow trail to his canoe, with Peter close behind him, his heart was crying
out Nada's name and Yellow Bird's promise that sometime--somewhere-- they two would find happiness
together, as Giselle and Terence Cassidy had found it.

This is an atom: 
And Peter heard the chopping of the distant axe, and the song of birds, and the chattering
of squirrels--but thrilling his soul most of all was the voice of his master, the old voice,
the glad voice, the voice he had first learned to love at Cragg's Ridge in the days of blue
violets and red strawberries, when Nada had filled his world.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XIII

This is an atom: 
McKay still had his mind on a certain stretch of timber that reached out into the Barren Lands,
hundreds of miles farther north. In this hiding place, three years before, he had built himself
a cabin, and had caught foxes during half the long winter. Not only the cabin, but the foxes,
were drawing him. Necessity was close upon his heels. What little money he possessed after
leaving Cragg's Ridge was exhausted, his supplies were gone, and his boots and clothes were
patched with deer hide.

This is an atom: 
In the Snowbird Lake country, a week after he left Cassidy in his paradise at Wollaston, he
fell in with good fortune. Two trappers had come in from Churchill. One of them was sick, and
the other needed help in the building of their winter cabin. McKay remained with them for ten
days, and when he continued his journey northward his pack was stuffed with supplies, and he
wore new boots and more comfortable clothes.

This is an atom: 
It was the middle of October when he found his old cabin, a thousand miles from Cragg's Ridge.
It was as he had left it three years ago. No one had opened its door since then. The little
box stove was waiting for a fire. Behind it was a pile of wood. On the table were the old tin
dishes, and hanging from babiche cords fastened to the roof timbers, out of reach of mice and
ermine, were blankets and clothing and other possessions he had left behind him in that winter
break-up of what seemed like ages ago to him. He raised a small section in the floor, and there
were his traps, thickly coated with caribou grease. For half an hour before he built a fire
he sought eagerly for the things he had concealed here and there. He found oil, and a tin lamp,
and candles, and as darkness of the first night gathered outside a roaring fire sent sparks
up the chimney, and the little cabin's one window glowed with light, and the battered old coffee
pot bubbled and steamed again, as if rejoicing at his return.

This is an atom: 
With the breaking of another day he immediately began preparations for the season's trapping.
In two days' hunting he killed three caribou, his winter meat. Then he cut wood, and made his
strychnine poison baits, and marked out his trap-lines.

This is an atom: 
The first of November brought the chill whisperings of an early winter through the Northland.
Farther south autumn was dying, or dead. The last of the red ash berries hung shriveled and
frost- bitten on naked twigs, freezing nights were nipping the face of the earth, the voices
of the wilderness were filled with a new note and the winds held warning for every man and
beast between Hudson's Bay and the Great Slave and from the Height of Land to the Arctic Sea.
Seven years before there had come such a winter, and the land had not forgotten it--a winter
sudden and swift, deadly in its unexpectedness, terrific in its cold, bringing with it such
famine and death as the Northland had not known for two generations.

This is an atom: 
But this year there was premonition. Omen of it came with the first wailing night winds that
bore the smell of icebergs from over the black forests north and west. The moon came up red,
and it went down red, and the sun came up red in the morning. The loon's call died a month
ahead of its time. The wild geese drove steadily south when they should have been feeding from
the Kogatuk to Baffin's Bay, and the beaver built his walls thick, and anchored his alders
and his willows deep so that he would not starve when the ice grew heavy. East, west, north
and south, in forest and swamp, in the trapper's cabin and the wolf's hiding- place, was warning
of it. Gray rabbits turned white. Moose and caribou began to herd. The foxes yipped shrilly
in the night, and a new hunger and a new thrill sent the wolves hunting in packs, while the
gray geese streaked southward under the red moon overhead.

This is an atom: 
Through this November, and all of December, Jolly Roger and Peter were busy from two hours
before dawn of each day until late at night. The foxes were plentiful, and McKay was compelled
to shorten his lines and put out fewer baits, and on the tenth of December he set out for a
fur-trading post ninety miles south with two hundred and forty skins. He had made a toboggan,
and a harness for Peter, and pulling together they made the trip in three days, and on the
fourth started for the cabin again with supplies and something over a thousand dollars in cash.

This is an atom: 
Through the weeks of increasing storm and cold that followed, McKay continued to trap, and
early in February he made another trip to the fur post.

This is an atom: 
It was on their return that they were caught in the Black Storm. It will be a long time before
the northland will forget that storm. It was a storm in which the Sarcees died to a man, woman
and child over on the Dubawnt waterways, and when trees froze solid and split open with the
sharp explosions of high-power guns. In it, all furred and feathered life and all hoof and
horn along the edge of the Barren Lands from Aberdeen Lake to the Coppermine was swallowed
up. It was in this storm that streams froze solid, and the man who was cautious fastened a
babiche rope about his waist when he went forth from his cabin for wood or water, so that his
wife might help to pull and guide him back through that blinding avalanche of wind and freezing
fury that held a twisted and broken world in its grip.

This is an atom: 
In the country west of Artillery Lake and south of the Theolon River, Jolly Roger and Peter
were compelled to "dig in." They were in a country where the biggest stick of wood that thrust
itself up out of the snow was no bigger than McKay's thumb; a country of green grass and succulent
moss on which the caribou fed in season, but a hell on earth when arctic storm howled and screamed
across it in winter.

This is an atom: 
Piled up against a mass of rock Jolly Roger found a huge snow drift. This drift was as long
as a church and half as high, with its outer shell blistered and battered to the hardness of
rock by wind and sleet. Through this shell he cut a small door with his knife, and after that
dug out the soft snow from within until he had a room half as big as his cabin, and so snug
and warm after a little with the body heat of himself and Peter that he could throw off the
thick coat which he wore.

This is an atom: 
To Peter, in the first night of this storm, it seemed as though all the people in the world
were shrieking and wailing and sobbing in the blackness outside. Jolly Roger sat smoking his
pipe at intervals in the gloom, though there was little pleasure in smoking a pipe in darkness.
The storm did not oppress him, but filled him with an odd sense of security and comfort. The
wind shrieked and lashed itself about his snow-dune, but it could not get at him. Its mightiest
efforts to destroy only beat more snow upon him, and made him safer and warmer. In a way, there
was something of humor as well as tragedy in its wild frenzy, and Peter heard him laugh softly
in the darkness. More and more frequently he had heard that laugh since those warm days of
autumn when they had last met the red-headed man, Terence Cassidy, of the Royal Northwest Mounted
Police, and his master had shot him on the white shore of Wollaston.

This is an atom: 
"You see," said McKay, caressing Peter's hairy neck in the gloom. "Everything is turning out
right for us, and I'm beginning to believe more and more what Yellow Bird told us, and that
in the end we're going to be happy--somewhere--with Nada. What do you think, Pied-Bot? Shall
we take a chance, and go back to Cragg's Ridge in the spring?"

This is an atom: 
Peter wriggled himself in answer, as a wild shriek of wind wailed over the huge snow-dune.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's fingers tightened at Peter's neck.

This is an atom: 
"Well, we're going," he said, as though he was telling Peter something new. "I'm believing
Yellow Bird, Pied-Bot. I'm believing her--now. What she told us was more than fortune-telling.
It wasn't just Indian sorcery. When she shut herself up and starved for those three days and
nights in her little conjurer's house, just for you and me--SOMETHING HAPPENED. Didn't it?
Wouldn't you say something happened?"

This is an atom: 
Peter swallowed and his teeth clicked as he gave evidence of understanding.

This is an atom: 
"She told us a lot of truth," went on Jolly Roger, with deep faith in his voice "And we must
believe, Pied-Bot. She told us Cassidy was coming after us, and he came. She said the spirits
promised her the law would never get us, and we thought it looked bad when Cassidy had us covered
with his gun on the shore at Wollaston. But something more than luck was with us, and we shot
him. Then we brought him back to life and lugged him to a cabin, and the little stranger girl
took him, and nursed him, and Cassidy fell in love with her--and married her. So Yellow Bird
was right again, Pied- Bot. We've got to believe her. And she says everything is coming out
right for us, and that we are going back to Nada, and be happy--"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's pipe-bowl glowed in the blackness.

This is an atom: 
"I'm going to light the alcohol lamp," he said. "We can't sleep. And I want a good smoke. It
isn't fun when you can't see the smoke. Too bad God forgot to make you so you could use a pipe,
Peter. You don't know what you are missing--in times like these."

This is an atom: 
He fumbled in his pack and found the alcohol lamp, which was fresh filled and screwed tight.
Peter heard him working for a moment in the darkness. Then he struck a match, and the yellow
flare of it lighted up his face. In his joy Peter whined. It was good to see his master. And
then, in another moment, the little lamp was filling their white-walled refuge with a mellow
glow. Jolly Roger's eyes, coming suddenly out of darkness, were wide and staring. His face
was covered with a scrub beard. But there was something of cheer about him even in this night
of terror outside, and when he had driven his snowshoe into the snow wall, and had placed the
lamp on it, he grinned companionably at Peter.

This is an atom: 
Then, with a deep breath of satisfaction, he puffed out clouds of smoke from his pipe, and
stood up to look about their room.

This is an atom: 
"Not so bad, is it?" he asked. "We could have a big house here if we wanted to dig out rooms--eh,
Peter? Parlors, and bed-rooms, and a library--and not a policeman within a million miles of
us. That's the nice part of it, PIED-BOT--none of the Royal Mounties to trouble us. They would
never think of looking for us in the heart of a big snow-dune out in this God-forsaken barren,
would they?"

This is an atom: 
The thought was a pleasing one to Jolly Roger. He spread out his blankets on the snow floor,
and sat down on them, facing Peter.

This is an atom: 
"We've got 'em beat," he said, a chuckling note of pride in his voice. "The world is small
when it comes to hiding, Pied-Bot, but all the people in it couldn't find us here--not in a
million years. If we could only find a place as safe as this--where a girl could live--and
had Nada with us--"

This is an atom: 
Many times during the past few weeks Peter had seen the light that flamed up now in his master's
eyes. That, and the strange thrill in Jolly Roger's voice, stirred him more than the words
to which he listened, and tried to understand.

This is an atom: 
"And we're GOING to," finished McKay, almost fiercely, his hands clenching as he leaned toward
Peter. "We have made a big mistake, Pied-Bot, and it has taken us a long time to see it. It
will be hard for us to leave our north country, but that is what we must do. Maybe Yellow Bird's
good spirits meant that when they said we would find happiness with Nada in a place called
The Country Beyond. There are a lot of 'Countries Beyond,' Peter, and as soon as the spring
break-up comes and we can travel without leaving trails behind us we will go back to Cragg's
Ridge and get Nada, and hit for some place where the law won't expect to find us. There's China,
for instance. A lot of yellow people. But what do we care for color as long as we have her
with us? I say--"

This is an atom: 
Suddenly he stopped. And Peter's body grew tense. Both faced the round hole, half filled with
softly packed snow, which McKay had cut as a door into the heart of the big drift. They had
grown accustomed to the tumult of the storm. Its strange wailings and the shrieking voices
which at times seemed borne in the moaning sweep of it no longer sent shivers of apprehension
through Peter. But in that moment when both turned to listen there came a sound which was not
like the other sounds they had heard. It was a voice--not one of the phantom voices of the
screaming wind, but a voice so real and so near that for a beat or two even Jolly Roger McKay's
heart stood still. It was as if a man, standing just beyond their snow barricade, had shouted
a name. But there came no second call. The wind lulled, so that for a space there was stillness
outside.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger laughed a little uneasily.

This is an atom: 
"Good thing we don't believe in ghosts, Peter, or we would swear it was a Loup-Garou smelling
us through the wall!" He thumbed the tobacco down in his pine, and nodded. "Then--there is
South America," he said. "They have everything down there--the biggest rivers in the world,
the biggest mountains, and so much room that even a Loup-Garou couldn't hunt us out. She will
love it, Pied- Bot. But if it happens she likes Africa better, or Australia, or the South Sea--Now,
what the devil was that?"

This is an atom: 
Peter had jumped as if stung, and for a moment Jolly Roger sat tense as a carven Indian. Then
he rose to his feet, a look of perplexity and doubt in his eyes.

This is an atom: 
"What was it, Peter? Can the wind shoot a gun--like THAT?"

This is an atom: 
Peter was sniffing at the loosely blocked door of their snow-room. A whimper rose in his throat.
He looked up at Jolly Roger, his eyes glowing fiercely through the mass of Airedale whiskers
that covered his face. He wanted to dig. He wanted to plunge out into the howling darkness.
Slowly McKay beat the ash out of his pipe and placed the pipe in his pocket.

This is an atom: 
"We'll take a look," he said, something repressive in his voice. "But it isn't reasonable,
Peter. It is the wind. There couldn't be a man out there, and it wasn't a rifle we heard. It
is the wind-- with the devil himself behind it!"

This is an atom: 
With a few sweeps of his hands and arms he scooped out the loose snow from the hole. The opening
was on the sheltered side of the drift, and only the whirling eddies of the storm swept about
him as he thrust out his head and shoulders. But over him it was rushing like an avalanche.
He could hear nothing but the moaning advance of it. And he could see nothing. He held out
his hand before his face, and blackness swallowed it.

This is an atom: 
"We have been chased so much that we're what you might call super- sensitive," he said, pulling
himself back and nodding at Peter in the gray light of the alcohol lamp. "Guess we'd better
turn in, boy. This is a good place to sleep--plenty of fresh air, no mosquitoes or black flies,
and the police so far away that we will soon forget how they look. If you say so we will have
a nip of cold tea and a bite--"

This is an atom: 
He did not finish. For a moment the wind had lessened in fury, as if gathering a deeper breath.
And what he heard drew a cry from him this time, and a sharper whine from Peter. Out of the
blackness of the night had come a woman's voice! In that first instant of shock and amazement
he would have staked his life that what he heard was not a mad outcry of the night or an illusion
of his brain. It was clear--distinct--a woman's voice coming from out on the Barren, rising
above the storm in an agony of appeal, and dying out quickly until it became a part of the
moaning wind. And then, with equal force, came the absurdity of it to McKay. A woman! He swallowed
the lump that had risen in his throat, and tried to laugh. A WOMAN--out in that storm--a thousand
miles from nowhere! It was inconceivable.

This is an atom: 
The laugh which he forced from his lips was husky and unreal, and there was a smothering grip
of something at his heart. In the ghostly light of the alcohol lamp his eyes were wide open
and staring.

This is an atom: 
He looked at Peter. The dog stood stiff-legged before the hole. His body was trembling.

This is an atom: 
"Peter!"

This is an atom: 
With a responsive wag of his tail Peter turned his bristling face up to his master. Many times
Jolly Roger had seen that unfailing warning in his comrade's eyes. THERE WAS SOME ONE OUTSIDE--or
Peter's brain, like his own, was twisted and fooled by the storm!

This is an atom: 
Against his reasoning--in the face of the absurdity of it--Jolly Roger was urged into action.
He changed the snowshoe and replaced the alcohol lamp so that the glow of light could be seen
more clearly from the Barren. Then he went to the hole and crawled through. Peter followed him.

This is an atom: 
As if infuriated by their audacity, the storm lashed itself over the top of the dune. They
could hear the hissing whine of fine hard snow tearing above their heads like volleys of shot,
and the force of the wind reached them even in their shelter, bringing with it the flinty sting
of the snow-dust. Beyond them the black barren was filled with a dismal moaning. Looking up,
and yet seeing nothing in the darkness, Peter understood where the weird shriekings and ghostly
cries came from. It was the wind whipping itself up the side and over the top of the dune.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger listened, hearing only the convulsive sweep of that mighty force over a thousand
miles of barren. And then came again one of those brief intervals when the storm seemed to
rest for a moment, and its moaning grew less and less, until it was like the sound of giant
chariot wheels receding swiftly over the face of the earth. Then came the silence--a few seconds
of it--while in the north gathered swiftly the whispering rumble of a still greater force.

This is an atom: 
And in this silence came once more a cry--a cry which Jolly Roger McKay could no longer disbelieve,
and close upon the cry the report of a rifle. Again he could have sworn the voice was a woman's
voice. As nearly as he could judge it came from dead ahead, out of the chaos of blackness,
and in that direction he shouted an answer. Then he ran out into the darkness, followed by
Peter. Another avalanche of wind gathered at their heels, driving them on like the crest of
a flood. In the first force of it Jolly Roger stumbled and fell to his knees, and in that moment
he saw very faintly the glow of his light at the opening in the snow dune. A realization of
his deadly peril if he lost sight of the light flashed upon him. Again and again he called
into the night. After that, bowing his head in the fury of the storm, he plunged on deeper
into darkness.

This is an atom: 
A sudden wild thought seized upon his soul and thrilled him into forgetfulness of the light
and the snow-dune and his own safety. In the heart of this mad world he had heard a voice.
He no longer doubted it. And the voice was a woman's voice! Could it be Nada? Was it possible
she had followed him after his flight, determined to find him, and share his fate? His heart
pounded. Who else, of all the women in the world, could be following his trail across the Barrens--a
thousand miles from civilization? He began to shout her name. "Nada--Nada--Nada!" And hidden
in the gloom at his side Peter barked.

This is an atom: 
Storm and darkness swallowed them. The last faint gleam of the alcohol lamp died out. Jolly
Roger did not look back. Blindly he stumbled ahead, counting his footsteps as he went, and
shouting Nada's name. Twice he thought he heard a reply, and each time the will-o'-the-wisp
voice seemed to be still farther ahead of him. Then, with a fiercer blast of the wind beating
upon his back, he stumbled and fell forward upon his face. His hand reached out and touched
the thing that had tripped him. It was not snow. His naked fingers clutched in something soft
and furry. It was a man's coat. He could feel buttons, a belt, and the sudden thrill of a bearded
face.

This is an atom: 
He stood up. The wind was wailing off over the Barren again, leaving an instant of stillness
about him. And he shouted:

This is an atom: 
"Nada--Nada--Nada!"

This is an atom: 
An answer came so quickly that it startled him, not one voice, but two--three--and one of them
the shrill agonized cry of a woman. They came toward him as he continued to shout, until a
few feet away he could make out a gray blur moving through the gloom. He went to it, staggering
under the weight of the man he had found in the snow. The blur was made up of two men dragging
a sledge, and behind the sledge was a third figure, moaning in the darkness.

This is an atom: 
"I found some one in the snow," Jolly Roger shouted. "Here he is-- "

This is an atom: 
He dropped his burden, and the last of his words were twisted by a fresh blast of the storm.
But the figure behind the sledge had heard, and Jolly Roger saw her indistinctly at his feet,
shielding the man he had found with her arms and body, and crying out a name which he could
not understand in that howling of the wind. But a thing like cold steel sank into his heart,
and he knew it was not Nada he had found this night on the Barren. He placed the unconscious
man on the sledge, believing he was dead. The girl was crying out something to him, unintelligible
in the storm, and one of the men shouted in a thick throaty voice which he could not understand.
Jolly Roger felt the weight of him as he staggered in the wind, fighting to keep his feet,
and he knew he was ready to drop down in the snow and die.

This is an atom: 
"It's only a step," he shouted. "Can you make it?"

This is an atom: 
His words reached the ears of the others. The girl swayed through the darkness and gripped
his arm. The two men began to tug at the sledge, and Jolly Roger seized the rope between them,
wondering why there were no dogs, and faced the driving of the storm. It seemed an interminable
time before he saw the faint glow of the alcohol lamp. The last fifty feet was like struggling
against an irresistible hail from machine-guns. Then came the shelter of the dune.

This is an atom: 
One at a time McKay helped to drag them through the hole which he used for a door. For a space
his vision was blurred, and he saw through the hazy film of storm-blindness the gray faces
and heavily coated forms of those he had rescued. The man he had found in the snow he placed
on his blankets, and the girl fell down upon her knees beside him. It was then Jolly Roger
began to see more clearly. And in that same instant came a shock as unexpected as the smash
of dynamite under his feet.

This is an atom: 
The girl had thrown back her parkee, and was sobbing over the man on the blankets, and calling
him father. She was not like Nada. Her hair was in thick, dark coils, and she was older. She
was not pretty--now. Her face was twisted by the brutal beating of the storm, and her eyes
were nearly closed. But it was the man Jolly Roger stared at, while his heart choked inside
him. He was grizzled and gray-bearded, with military mustaches and a bald head. He was not
dead. His eyes were open, and his blue lips were struggling to speak to the girl whose blindness
kept her from seeing that he was alive. And the coat which he wore was the regulation service
garment of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police!

This is an atom: 
Slowly McKay turned, wiping the film of snow-sweat from his eyes, and stared at the other two.
One of them had sunk down with his back to the snow wall. He was a much younger man, possibly
not over thirty, and his face was ghastly. The third lay where he had fallen from exhaustion
after crawling through the hole. Both wore service coats, with holsters at their sides.

This is an atom: 
The man against the snow-wall was making an effort to rise. He sagged back, and grinned up
apologetically at McKay.

This is an atom: 
"Dam' fine of you, old man," he mumbled between blistered lips. "I'm Porter--'N' Division--taking
Superintendent Tavish to Fort Churchill--Tavish and his daughter. Made a hell of a mess of
it, haven't I?"

This is an atom: 
He struggled to his knees.

This is an atom: 
"There's brandy in our kit. It might help--over there," and he nodded toward the girl and the
gray-bearded man on the blankets.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XIV

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger did not answer, but crawled through the hole and found the sledge in the outer
darkness. He heard Peter coming after him, and he saw Porter's bloodless face in the illumination
of the alcohol lamp, where he waited to help him with the dunnage. In those seconds he fought
to get a grip on himself. A quarter of an hour ago he had laughed at the thought of the law.
Never had it seemed to be so far away from him, and never had he been more utterly isolated
from the world. His mind was still a bit dazed by the thing that had happened. The police had
not trailed him. They had not ferreted him out, nor had they stumbled upon him by accident.
It was he who had gone out into the night and deliberately dragged them in! Of all the trickery
fate had played upon him this was the least to be expected.

This is an atom: 
His mind began to work more swiftly as in darkness he cut the babiche cordage that bound the
patrol dunnage to the sledge. "N" Division, he told himself, was away over in the Athabasca
country. He had never heard of Porter, nor of Superintendent Tavish, and inasmuch as the outfit
was evidently a special escort to Fort Churchill it was very likely that Porter and his companions
would not be thinking of outlaws, and especially of Jolly Roger McKay. This was his one chance.
To attempt an escape through the blizzard was not only a desperate hazard. It was death.

This is an atom: 
There were only two packs on the sledge, and these he passed through the hole to Porter. A
few moments later he was holding a flask of liquor to the lips of the gray-bearded man, while
the girl looked at him with eyes that were widening as the snow-sting left them. Tavish gulped,
and his mittened hand closed on the girl's arm.

This is an atom: 
"I'm all right, Jo," he mumbled. "All right--"

This is an atom: 
His eyes met McKay's, and then took in the snow walls of the dug- out. They were deep, piercing
eyes, overhung by shaggy brows. Jolly Roger felt the intentness of their gaze as he gave the
girl a swallow of the brandy, and then passed the flask to Porter.

This is an atom: 
"You have saved our lives," said Tavish, in a voice that was clearer. "I don't just understand
how it happened. I remember stumbling in the darkness, and being unable to rise. I was behind
the sledge. Porter and Breault were dragging it, and Josephine, my daughter, was sheltered
under the blankets. After that--"

This is an atom: 
He paused, and Jolly Roger explained how it all had come about. He pointed to Peter. It was
the dog, he said. Peter had insisted there was someone outside, and they had taken a chance
by going in search of them. He was John Cummings, a fox trapper, and the storm had caught him
fifty miles from his cabin. He was traveling without a dog-sledge, and had only a pack-outfit.

This is an atom: 
Breault, the third man, had regained his wind, and was listening to him. One look at his dark,
thin face told McKay that he was the wilderness man of the three. He was staring at Jolly Roger
in a strange sort of way. And then, as if catching himself, he nodded, and began rubbing his
frosted face with handfuls of snow.

This is an atom: 
Porter had thrown off his heavy coat, and was unpacking one of the dunnage sacks. He and the
girl seemed to have suffered less than the other two. Jo, the girl, was looking at him. And
then her eyes turned to Jolly Roger. They were large, fine eyes, wide open and clear now. There
was something of splendid strength about her as she smiled at McKay. She was not of the hysterical
sort. He could see that.

This is an atom: 
"If we could have some hot soup," she suggested. "May we?"

This is an atom: 
There was gratitude in her eyes, which she made no attempt to express in words. Jolly Roger
liked her. And Peter crept up behind her, and watched her as she followed Breault's example,
and rubbed the cheeks of the bearded man with snow.

This is an atom: 
"There's an alcohol stove in the other pack," said Breault, with his hard, narrow eyes fixed
steadily on Jolly Roger's face. "By the way, what did you say your name was?"

This is an atom: 
"Cummings--John Cummings."

This is an atom: 
Breault made no answer. During the next half hour Jolly Roger felt stealing over him a growing
sense of uneasiness. They drank soup and ate bannock. It grew warm, and the girl threw off
the heavy fur garment that enveloped her. Color returned into her cheeks. Her eyes were bright,
and in her voice was a tremble of happiness at finding warmth and life where she had expected
death. Porter's friendliness was almost brotherly. He explained what had happened. Two rascally
Chippewyans had deserted them, stealing off into darkness and storm with both dog teams and
one of their sledges. After that they had fought on, seeking for a drift into which they might
dig a refuge. But the Barren was as smooth as a table. They had shouted, and Miss Tavish had
screamed--not because they expected to find assistance--but on account of Tavish falling in
the storm, and losing himself. It was quite a joke, Porter thought, that Superintendent Tavish,
one of the iron men of the service, should have given up the ghost so easily.

This is an atom: 
Tavish smiled grimly. They were all in good humor, and happy, with the possible exception of
Breault. Not once did he laugh or smile. Yet Jolly Roger noted that each time he spoke the
others were specially attentive. There was something repressive and mysterious about the man,
and the girl would cut herself short in the middle of a laugh if he happened to speak, and
the softness of her mouth would harden in an instant. He understood the significance of her
gladness, and of Porter's, for twice he saw their hands come together, and their fingers entwine.
And in their eyes was something which they could not hide when they looked at each other. But
Breault puzzled him. He did not know that Breault was the best man-hunter in "N" Division,
which reached from Athabasca Landing to the Arctic Ocean, or that up and down the two thousand-
mile stretch of the Three River Country he was known as Shingoos, the Ferret.

This is an atom: 
The girl fell asleep first that night, with her cheek on her father's shoulder. Breault, the
Ferret, rolled himself in a blanket, and breathed deeply. Porter still smoked his pipe, and
looked wistfully at the pale face of Josephine Tavish. He smiled a bit proudly at McKay.

This is an atom: 
"She's mine," he whispered. "We're going to be married."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger wanted to reach over and grip his hand.

This is an atom: 
He nodded, a little lump coming in his throat.

This is an atom: 
"I know how you feel," he said. "When I heard her calling out there--it made me think--of a
girl down south."

This is an atom: 
"Down south?" queried Porter. "Why down south--if you care for her--and you up here?"

This is an atom: 
McKay shrugged his shoulders. He had said too much. Neither he nor Porter knew that Breault's
eyes were half open, and that he was listening.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger held up a hand, as if something in the wailing of the storm had caught his attention.

This is an atom: 
"We'll have two or three days of this. Better turn in, Porter. I'm going to dig out another
room--for Miss Tavish. I'm afraid she'll need the convenience of a private room before we're
able to move. It's an easy job--and passes the time away."

This is an atom: 
"I'll help," offered Porter.

This is an atom: 
For an hour they worked, using McKay's snowshoes as shovels. During that hour Breault did not
close his eyes. A curious smile curled his thin lips as he watched Jolly Roger. And when at
last Porter turned in, and slept, the Ferret sat up, and stretched himself. McKay had finished
his room, and was beginning a tunnel which would lead as a back door out of the drift, when
Breault came in and picked up the snowshoe which Porter had used.

This is an atom: 
"I'll take my turn," he said. "I'm a bit nervous, and not at all sleepy, Cummings." He began
digging into the snow. "Been long in this country?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
"Three winters. It's a good red fox country, with now and then a silver and a black."

This is an atom: 
Breault grunted.

This is an atom: 
"You must have met Cassidy, then," he said casually, without looking at McKay. "Corporal Terence
Cassidy. This is his country."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger did not look up from his work of digging.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I know him. Met him last winter. Red headed. A nice chap. I like him. You know him?"

This is an atom: 
"Entered the service together," said Breault. "But he's unlucky. For two or three years he
has been on the trail of a man named McKay. Jolly Roger, they call him--Jolly Roger McKay.
Ever hear of him?"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger nodded.

This is an atom: 
"Cassidy told me about him when he was at my cabin. From what I've heard I--rather like him."

This is an atom: 
"Who--Cassidy, or Jolly Roger?"

This is an atom: 
"Both."

This is an atom: 
For the first time the Ferret leveled his eyes at his companion. They were mystifying eyes,
never appearing to open fully, but remaining half closed as if to conceal whatever thought
might lie behind them. McKay felt their penetration. It was like a cold chill entering into
him, warning him of a menace deadlier than the storm.

This is an atom: 
"Haven't any idea where one might come upon this Jolly Roger, have you?"

This is an atom: 
"No."

This is an atom: 
"You see, he thinks he killed a man down south. Well, he didn't. The man lived. If you happen
to see him at any time give him that information, will you?"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger thrust his head and shoulders into the growing tunnel.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I will."

This is an atom: 
He knew Breault was lying. And also knew that back of the narrow slits of Breault's eyes was
the cunning of a fox.

This is an atom: 
"You might also tell him the law has a mind to forgive him for sticking up that free trader's
post a few years ago."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger turned with his snowshoe piled high with a load of snow.

This is an atom: 
"I'll tell him that, too," he said, chuckling at the obviousness of the other's trap. "What
do you think my cabin is, Breault--a Rest for Homeless Outlaws?"

This is an atom: 
Breault grinned. It was an odd sort of grin, and Jolly Roger caught it over his shoulder. When
he returned from dumping his load, Breault said:

This is an atom: 
"You see, we know this Jolly Roger fellow is spending the winter somewhere up here. And Cassidy
says there is a girl down south--"

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's face was hidden in the tunnel.

This is an atom: 
"--who would like to see him," finished Breault.

This is an atom: 
When McKay turned toward him the Ferret was carelessly lighting his pipe.

This is an atom: 
"I remember--Cassidy told me about this girl," said Jolly Roger. "He said--some day--he would
trap this--this man--through the girl. So if I happen to meet Jolly Roger McKay, and send him
back to the girl, it will help out the law. Is that it, Breault? And is there any reward tacked
to it? Anything in it for me?"

This is an atom: 
Breault was looking at him in the pale light of the alcohol lamp, puffing out tobacco smoke,
and with that odd twist of a smile about his thin lips.

This is an atom: 
"Listen to the storm," he said. "I think it's getting worse-- Cummings!"

This is an atom: 
Suddenly he held out a hand to Peter, who sat near the lamp, his bright eyes fixed watchfully
on the stranger.

This is an atom: 
"Nice dog you have, Cummings. Come here, Peter! Peter--Peter--"

This is an atom: 
Tight ringers seemed to grip at McKay's throat. He had not spoken Peter's name since the rescue
of Breault.

This is an atom: 
"Peter--Peter--"

This is an atom: 
The Ferret was smiling affably. But Peter did not move. He made no response to the outstretched
hand. His eyes were steady and challenging. In that moment McKay wanted to hug him up in his arms.

This is an atom: 
The Ferret laughed.

This is an atom: 
"He's a good dog, a very good dog, Cummings. I like a one-man dog, and I also like a one-dog
man. That's what Jolly Roger McKay is, if you ever happen to meet him. Travels with one dog.
An Airedale, with whiskers on him like a Mormon. And his name is Peter. Funny name for a dog,
isn't it?"

This is an atom: 
He faced the outer room, stretching his long arms above his head.

This is an atom: 
"I'm going to try sleep again, Cummings. Goodnight! And--Mother of Heaven!--listen to the wind."

This is an atom: 
"Yes, it's a bad night," said McKay.

This is an atom: 
He looked at Peter when Breault was gone, and his heart was beating fast. He could hear the
wind, too. It was sweeping over the Barren more fiercely than before, and the sound of it brought
a steely glitter into his eyes. This time he could not run away from the law. Flight meant
death. And Breault knew it. He was in a trap--a trap built by himself. That is, if Breault
had guessed the truth, and he believed he had. There was only one way out--and that meant fight.

This is an atom: 
He went into the outer room for his pack and a blanket. He did not look at Breault, but he
knew the man's narrow eyes were following him. He left the alcohol lamp burning, but in his
own room, after he had spread out his bed, he extinguished the light. Then, very quietly, he
dug a hole through the snow partition between the two rooms. He waited for ten minutes before
he thrust a finger-tip through the last thin crust of snow. With his eye close to the aperture
he could see Breault. The Ferret was sitting up, and leaning toward Porter, who was sleeping
an arm's length away. He reached over, and touched him on the shoulder.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger widened the snow-slit another inch, straining his ears to hear. He could see Tavish
and the girl asleep. In another moment Porter was sitting up, with the Ferret's hand gripping
his arm warningly. Breault motioned toward the inner room, and Porter was silent. Then Breault
bent over and began to whisper. Jolly Roger could hear only the indistinct monotone of his
voice. But he could see very clearly the change that came into Porter's face. His eyes widened,
and he stared toward the inner room, making a movement as if to rouse Tavish and the girl.

This is an atom: 
The Ferret stopped him.

This is an atom: 
"Don't get excited. Let them sleep."

This is an atom: 
McKay heard that much--and no more. For some time after that the two men sat close together,
conversing in whispers. There was an exultant satisfaction in Porter's clean-cut face, as well
as in Breault's. Jolly Roger watched them until Breault extinguished the second lamp. Then
he lightly plugged the hole in the partition with snow, and reached out in the darkness until
his hand found Peter.

This is an atom: 
"They think they've got us, boy," he whispered, "They think they've got us!"

This is an atom: 
Very quietly they lay for an hour. McKay did not sleep, and Peter was wide awake. At the end
of that hour Jolly Roger crept on his hands and knees to the doorway and listened. One after
another he picked out the steady breathing of the sleepers. Then he began feeling his way around
the wall of his room until he came to a place where the snow was very soft.

This is an atom: 
"An air-drift," he whispered to Peter, close at his shoulder. "We'll fool 'em, boy. And we'll
fight--if we have to."

This is an atom: 
He began worming his head and shoulders and body into the air- drift like a gimlet. A foot
at a time he burrowed himself through, heaving his body up and down and sideways to pack the
light snow, leaving a round tunnel two feet in diameter behind him. Within an hour he had come
to the outer crust on the windward side of the big snow-dune. He did not break through this
crust, which was as tough as crystal-glass, but lay quietly for a time and listened to the
sweep of the wind outside. It was warm, and very comfortable, and he had half-dozed off before
he caught himself back into wakefulness and returned to his room. The mouth of his tunnel he
packed with snow. After that he wound the blanket about him and gave himself up calmly to sleep.

This is an atom: 
Only Peter lay awake after that. And it was Peter who roused Jolly Roger in what would have
been the early dawn outside the snow- dune. McKay felt his restless movement, and opened his
eyes. A faint light was illumining his room, and he sat up. In the outer room the alcohol lamp
was burning again. He could hear movement, and voices that were very low and indistinct. Carefully
he dug out once more the little hole in the snow wall, and widened the slit.

This is an atom: 
Breault and Tavish were asleep, but Porter was sitting up, and close beside him sat the girl.
Her coiled hair was loosened, and fallen over her shoulders. There was no sign of drowsiness
in her wide-open eyes as they stared at the door between the two rooms. McKay could see her
hand clasping Porter's arm. Porter was talking, with his face so close to her bent head that
his lips touched her hair, and though Jolly Roger could understand no word that was spoken
he knew Porter was whispering the exciting secret of his identity to Josephine Tavish. He could
see, for a moment, a shadow of protest in her face, he could hear the quick, sibilant whisper
of her voice, and Porter cautioned her with a finger at her lips, and made a gesture toward
the sleeping Tavish. Then his fingers closed about her uncoiled hair as he drew her to him.
McKay watched the long kiss between them. The girl drew away quickly then, and Porter tucked
the blanket about her when she lay down beside her father. After that he stretched out again
beside Breault.

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger guessed what had happened. The girl had awakened, a bit nervous, and had roused
Porter and asked him to relight the alcohol lamp. And Porter had taken advantage of the opportunity
to tell her of the interesting discovery which Breault had made--and to kiss her. McKay stroked
Peter's scrawny neck, and listened. He could no longer hear the storm, and he wondered if the
fury of it was spent.

This is an atom: 
Every few minutes he looked through the slit in the snow wall. The last time, half an hour
after Porter had returned to his blanket, Josephine Tavish was sitting up. She was very wide
awake. McKay watched her as she rose slowly to her knees, and then to her feet. She bent over
Porter and Breault to make sure they were asleep, and then came straight toward the door of
his room.

This is an atom: 
He lay back on his blanket, with the fingers of one hand gripped closely about Peter.

This is an atom: 
"Be quiet, boy," he whispered. "Be quiet."

This is an atom: 
He could see the shutting out of light at his door as the girl stood there, listening for his
breathing. He breathed heavily, and before he closed his eyes he saw Josephine Tavish coming
toward him. In a moment she was bending over him. He could feel the soft caress of her loose
hair on his face and hands. Then she knelt quietly down beside him, stroking Peter with her
hand, and shook him lightly by the shoulder.

This is an atom: 
"Jolly Roger!" she whispered. "Jolly Roger McKay!"

This is an atom: 
He opened his eyes, looking up at the white face in the gloom.

This is an atom: 
"Yes," he replied softly. "What is it, Miss Tavish?"

This is an atom: 
He could hear the choking breath in her throat as her fingers tightened at his shoulder. She
bent her face still nearer to him, until her hair cluttered his throat and breast.

This is an atom: 
"You are--awake?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes."

This is an atom: 
"Then--listen to me. If you are Jolly Roger McKay you must get away--somewhere. You must go
before Breault awakens in the morning. I think the storm is over--there is no wind--and if
you are here when day comes--"

This is an atom: 
Her fingers loosened. Jolly Roger reached out and somewhere in the darkness he found her hand.
It clasped his own--firm, warm, thrilling.

This is an atom: 
"I thank you for what you have done," she whispered. "But the law --and Breault--they have
no mercy!"

This is an atom: 
She was gone, swiftly and silently, and McKay looked through the slit in the wall until she
was with her father again.

This is an atom: 
In the gloom he drew Peter close to him.

This is an atom: 
"We're up against it again, Pied-Bot," he confided under his breath. "We've got to take another
chance."

This is an atom: 
He worked without sound, and in a quarter of an hour his pack was ready, and the entrance to
his tunnel dug out. He went into the outer room then, where Josephine Tavish was awake. Jolly
Roger pantomimed his desire as she sat up. He wanted something from one of the packs. She nodded.
On his knees he fumbled in the dunnage, and when he rose to his feet, facing the girl, her
eyes opened wide at what he held in his hand--a small packet of old newspapers her father was
taking to the factor at Fort Churchill. She saw the hungry, apologetic look in his eyes, and
her woman's heart understood. She smiled gently at him, and her lips formed an unvoiced whisper
of gratitude as he turned to go. At the door he looked back. He thought she was beautiful then,
with her shining hair and eyes, and her lips parted, and her hands half reaching out to him,
as if in that moment of parting she was giving him courage and faith. Suddenly she pressed
the palms of her fingers to her mouth and sent the kiss of benediction to him through the twilight
glow of the snow-room.

This is an atom: 
A moment later, crawling through his tunnel with Peter close behind him, there was an exultant
singing in Jolly Roger's heart. Again he was fleeing from the law, but always, as Yellow Bird
had predicted in her sorcery, there were happiness and hope in his going. And always there
was someone to urge him on, and to take a pride in him, like Josephine Tavish.

This is an atom: 
He broke through the dune-crust at the end of his tunnel and crawled out into the thick, gray
dawn of a barren-land day. The sky was heavy overhead, and the wind had died out. It was the
beginning of the brief lull which came in the second day of the Great Storm.

This is an atom: 
McKay laughed softly as he sensed the odds against them.

This is an atom: 
"We'll be having the storm at our heels again before long, Pied- Bot," he said. "We'd better
make for the timber a dozen miles south."

This is an atom: 
He struck out, circling the dune, so that he was traveling straight away from the first hole
he had cut through the shell of the drift. From that door, made by the outlaw who had saved
them, Josephine Tavish watched the shadowy forms of man and dog until they were lost in the
gray-white chaos of a frozen world.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XV

This is an atom: 
Through the blizzard Jolly Roger made his way a score of miles southward from the big dune
on the Barren. For a day and a night he made his camp in the scrub timber which edged the vast
treeless tundras reaching to the Arctic. He believed he was safe, for the unceasing wind and
the blasts of shot-like snow filled his tracks a few moments after they were made. He struck
a straight line for his cabin after that first day and night in the scrub timber. The storm
was still a thing of terrific force out on the barren, but in the timber he was fairly well
sheltered. He was convinced the police patrol would find his cabin very soon after the storm
had worn itself out. Porter and Tavish did not trouble him. But from Breault he knew there
was no getting away. Breault would nose out his cabin. And for that reason he was determined
to reach it first.

This is an atom: 
The second night he did not sleep. His mind was a wild thing--wild as a Loup-Garou seeking
out its ghostly trails; it passed beyond his mastery, keeping sleep away from him though he
was dead tired. It carried him back over all the steps of his outlawry, visioning for him the
score of times he had escaped, as he was narrowly escaping now; and it pictured for him, like
a creature of inquisition, the tightening net ahead of him, the final futility of all his effort.
And at last, as if moved by pity to ease his suffering a little, it brought him back vividly
to the green valley, the flowers and the blue skies of Cragg's Ridge--and Nada.

This is an atom: 
It was like a dream. At times he could scarcely assure himself that he had actually lived those
weeks and months of happiness down on the edge of civilization; it seemed impossible that Nada
had come like an Angel into his life down there, and that she had loved him, even when he confessed
himself a fugitive from the law and had entreated him to take her with him. He closed his eyes
and that last roaring night of storm at Cragg's Ridge was about him again. He was in the little
old Missioner's cabin, with thunder and lightning rending earth and sky outside and Nada was
in his arms, her lips against his, the piteous heartbreak of despair in her eyes. Then he saw
her--a moment later--a crumpled heap down beside the chair, the disheveled glory of her hair
hiding her white face from him as he hesitated for a single instant before opening the door
and plunging out into the night.

This is an atom: 
With a cry he sprang up, dashing the vision from him, and threw fresh fuel on the fire. And
he cried out the same old thought to Peter.

This is an atom: 
"It would have been murder for us to bring her, Pied-Bot. It would have been murder!"

This is an atom: 
He looked about him at the swirling chaos outside the rim of light made by his fire and listened
to the moaning of the wind over the treetops. Beyond the circle of light the dry snow, which
crunched like sand under his feet, was lost in ghostly gloom. It was forty degrees below zero.
And he was glad, even with this sickness of despair in his heart, that she was not a fugitive
with him tonight.

This is an atom: 
Yet he built up a little make-believe world for himself as he sat with a blanket hugged close
about him, staring into the fire. In a hundred different ways he saw her face, a will-o-the-wisp
thing amid the flames; an illusive, very girlish, almost childish face-- yet always with the
light of a woman's soul shining in it. That was the miracle which startled him at last. It
seemed as if the fiction he built up in his despair transformed itself subtly into fact and
that her soul had come to him from out of the southland and was speaking to him with eyes which
never changed or faltered in their adoration, their faith and their courage. She seemed to
come to him, to creep into his arms under the folds of the blanket and he sensed the soft crush
of her hair, the touch of her lips, the warm encircling of her arms about his neck. Closer
to him pressed the mystery, until the beating of her heart was a living pulse against him;
and then--suddenly, as an irresistible impulse closed his arms to hold the spirit to him, his
eyes were drawn to the heart of the fire, and he saw there for an instant, wide-eyed and speaking
to him, the face of Yellow Bird the Indian sorceress. The flames crept up the long braids of
her hair, her lips moved, and then she was gone--but slowly, like a ghost slipping upward into
the mist of smoke and night.

This is an atom: 
Peter heard his master's cry. And after that Jolly Roger rose up and threw off the blanket
and walked back and forth until his feet trod a path in the snow. He told himself it was madness
to believe, and yet he believed. Faith fought itself back into that dark citadel of his heart
from which for a time it had been driven. New courage lighted up again the black chaos of his
soul. And at last he fell down on his knees and gripped Peter's shaggy head between his two hands.

This is an atom: 
"Pied-Bot, she said everything would come out right in the end," he cried, a new note in his
voice. "That's what Yellow Bird told us, wasn't it? Mebby they would have burned her as a witch
a long time ago because she's a sorceress, and says she can send her soul out of her body and
see what we can't see. BUT WE BELIEVE!" His voice choked up, and he laughed. "They were both
here tonight," he added. "Nada--and Yellow Bird. And I believe--I believe--I know what it means!"

This is an atom: 
He stood up again, and Peter saw the old smile on his master's lips as Jolly Roger looked up
into the swirling black canopy of the spruce-tops. And the wailing of the storm seemed no longer
to hold menace and taunt, but in it he heard the whisper of fierce, strong voices urging upon
him the conviction that had already swept indecision from his heart.

This is an atom: 
And then he said, holding out his arms as if encompassing something which he could not see.

This is an atom: 
"Peter, we're going back to Nada!"

This is an atom: 
Dawn was a scarcely perceptible thing when it came. Darkness seemed to fade a little, that
was all. Frosty shapes took form in the gloom, and the spruce-tops became tangible in an abyss
of sepulchral shadow overhead.

This is an atom: 
Through this beginning of the barren-land day Jolly Roger set out in the direction of his cabin
and in his blood was that new singing thing of fire and warmth that more than made up for the
hours of sleep he had lost during the night. The storm was dying out, he thought, and it was
growing warmer; yet the wind whistled and raved in the open spaces and his thermometer registered
the fortieth and a fraction degree below zero. The air he breathed was softer, he fancied,
yet it was still heavy with the stinging shot of blizzard; and where yesterday he had seen
only the smothering chaos of twisted spruce and piled up snow, there was now--as the pale day
broadened--his old wonderland of savage beauty, awaiting only a flash of sunlight to transform
it into the pure glory of a thing indescribable. But the sun did not come and Jolly Roger did
not miss it over-much for his heart was full of Nada, and a-thrill with the inspiration of
his home-going.

This is an atom: 
"That's what it means, GOING HOME" he said to Peter, who nosed close in the path of his snowshoes.
"There's a thousand miles between us and Cragg's Ridge, a thousand miles of snow and ice--
and hell, mebby. But we'll make it!"

This is an atom: 
He was sure of himself now. It was as if he had come up from out of the shadow of a great sickness.
He had been unwise. He had not reasoned as a man should reason. The hangman might be waiting
for him at Cragg's Ridge, down on the rim of civilization, but that same grim executioner was
also pursuing close at his heels. He would always be pursuing in the form of a Breault, a Cassidy,
a Tavish, or a Somebody Else of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police. It would be that way until
the end came. And when the end did come, when they finally got him, the blow would be easier
at Cragg's Ridge than up here on the edge of the Barren Land.

This is an atom: 
And again there was hope, a wild, almost unbelievable hope that with Nada he might find that
place which Yellow Bird, the sorceress, had promised for them--that mystery-place of safety
and of happiness which she had called The Country Beyond, where "all would end well." He had
not the faith of Yellow Bird's people; he was not superstitious enough to believe fully in
her sorcery, except that he seized upon it as a drowning man might grip at a floating sea-weed.
Yet was the under-current of hope so persistent that at times it was near faith. Up to this
hour Yellow Bird's sorcery had brought him nothing but the truth. For him she had conjured
the spirits of her people, and these spirits, speaking through Yellow Bird's lips, had saved
him from Cassidy at the fishing camp and had performed the miracle on the shore of Wollaston
and had predicted the salvation that had come to him out on the Barren. And so--was it not
conceivable that the other would also come true?

This is an atom: 
But these visions came to him only in flashes. As he traveled through the hours the one vital
desire of his being was to bring himself physically into the presence of Nada, to feel the
wild joy of her in his arms once more, the crush of her lips to his, the caress of her hands
in their old sweet way at his face--and to hear her voice, the girl's voice with the woman's
soul behind it, crying out its undying love, as he had last heard it that night in the Missioner's
cabin many months ago. After this had happened, then--if fate decreed it so--all other things
might end. Breault, the Ferret, might come. Or Porter. Or that Somebody Else who was always
on his trail. If the game finished thus, he would be satisfied.

This is an atom: 
When he stopped to make a pot of black tea and warm a snack to eat Jolly Roger tried to explain
this new meaning of life to Peter.

This is an atom: 
"The big thing we must do is to get there--safely," he said, already beginning to make plans
in the back of his head. And then he went on, building up his fabric of new hope before Peter,
while he crunched his luncheon of toasted bannock and fat bacon. There was something joyous
and definite in his voice which entered into Peter's blood and body. There was even a note
of excitement in it, and Peter's whiskers bristled with fresh courage and his eyes gleamed
and his tail thumped the snow comprehendingly. It was like having a master come back to him
from the dead.

This is an atom: 
And Jolly Roger even laughed, softly, under his breath.

This is an atom: 
"This is February," he said. "We ought to make it late in March. I mean Cragg's Ridge, Pied-Bot."

This is an atom: 
After that they went on, traveling hard to reach their cabin before the darkness of night,
which would drop upon them like a thick blanket at four o'clock. In these last hours there
pressed even more heavily upon Jolly Roger that growing realization of the vastness and emptiness
of the world. It was as if blindness had dropped from his eyes and he saw the naked truth at
last. Out of this world everything had emptied itself until it held only Nada. Only she counted.
Only she held out her arms to him, entreating him to keep for her that life in his body which
meant so little in all other ways. He thought of one of the little worn books which he carried
in his shoulder-pack--Jeanne D'Arc. As she had fought, with the guidance of God, so he believed
the blue-eyed girl down at Cragg's Ridge was fighting for him, and had sent her spirit out
in quest of him. And he was going back to her. GOING!

This is an atom: 
The last word, as it came from his lips, meant that nothing would stop them. He almost shouted
it. And Peter answered.

This is an atom: 
In spite of their effort, darkness closed in on them. With the first dusk of this night there
came sudden lulls in which the blizzard seemed to have exhausted itself. Jolly Roger read the
signs. By tomorrow there would be no storm and Breault the Ferret would be on the trail again,
along with Porter and Tavish.

This is an atom: 
It was his old craft, his old cunning, that urged him to go on. Strangely, he prayed for the
blizzard not to give up the ghost. Something must be accomplished before its fury was spent;
and he was glad when after each lull he heard again the moaning and screeching of it over the
open spaces, and the slashing together of spruce tops where there was cover. In a chaos of
gloom they came to the low ridge which reached across an open sweep of tundra to the finger
of shelter where the cabin was built. An hour later they were at its door. Jolly Roger opened
it and staggered in. For a space he stood leaning against the wall while his lungs drank in
the warmer air. The intake of his breath made a whistling sound and he was surprised to find
himself so near exhaustion. He heard the thud of Peter's body as it collapsed to the floor.

This is an atom: 
"Tired, Pied-Bot?"

This is an atom: 
It was difficult for his storm-beaten lips to speak the words.

This is an atom: 
Peter thumped his tail. The rat-tap-tap of it came in one of those lulls of the storm which
Jolly Roger had begun to dread.

This is an atom: 
"I hope it keeps up another two hours," he said, wetting his lips to take the stiffness out
of them. "If it doesn't--"

This is an atom: 
He was thinking of Breault as he drew off his mittens and fumbled for a match. It was Breault
he feared. The Ferret would find his cabin and his trail if the storm died out too soon.

This is an atom: 
He lighted the tin lamp on his table and after that, assured that wastefulness would cost him
nothing now, he set two bear-drip candles going, one at each end of the cabin. The illumination
filled the single room. There was little for it to reveal--the table he had made, a chair,
a battered little sheet-iron stove, and the humped up blanket in his bunk, under which he had
stored the remainder of his possessions. Back of the stove was a pile of dry wood, and in another
five minutes the roar of flames in the chimney mingled with a fresh bluster of the wind outside.

This is an atom: 
Defying the exhaustion of limbs and body, Jolly Roger kept steadily at work. He threw off his
heavier garments as the freezing atmosphere of the room became warmer, and prepared for a feast.

This is an atom: 
"We'll call it Christmas, and have everything we've got, Pied-Bot. We'll cook a quart of prunes
instead of six. No use stinting ourselves--tonight!"

This is an atom: 
Even Peter was amazed at the prodigality of his master. An hour later they ate, and McKay drank
a quart of hot coffee before he was done. Half of his fatigue was gone and he sat back for
a few minutes to finish off with the luxury of his pipe. Peter, gorged with caribou meat, stretched
himself out to sleep. But his eyes did not close. His master puzzled him. For after a little
Jolly Roger put on his heavy coat and parkee and pocketed his pipe. After that he slipped the
straps of his pack over head and shoulders and then, even more to Peter's bewilderment, emptied
a quart bottle of kerosene over the pile of dry wood behind the hot stove. To this he touched
a lighted match. His next movement drew from Peter a startled yelp. With a single thrust of
his foot he sent the stove crashing into the middle of the floor.

This is an atom: 
Half an hour later, when Peter and Jolly Roger looked back from the crest of the ridge, a red
pillar of flame lighted up the gloomy chaos of the unpeopled world they were leaving behind
them. The wind was driving fiercely from the Barren and with it came stinging volleys of the
fine drift-snow. In the teeth of it Roger McKay stared back.

This is an atom: 
"It's a good fire," he mumbled in his hood. "Half an hour and it will be out. There'll be nothing
for Breault to find if this wind keeps up another two hours--nothing but drift-snow, with no
sign of trail or cabin."

This is an atom: 
He struck out, leaving the shelter of the ridge. Straight south he went, keeping always in
the open spaces where the wind-swept drift covered his snowshoe trail almost as soon as it
was made. Darkness did not trouble him now. The open barren was ahead, miles of it, while only
a little to the westward was the shelter of timber. Twice he blundered to the edge of this
timber, but quickly set his course again in the open, with the wind always quartering at his
back. He could only guess how long he kept on. The time came when he began to count the swing
of his snowshoes, measuring off half a mile, or a mile, and then beginning over again until
at last the achievement of five hundred steps seemed to take an immeasurable length of time
and great effort. Like the ache of a tooth came the first warning of snowshoe cramp in his
legs. In the black night he grinned. He knew what it meant--a warning as deadly as swimmer's
cramp in deep water. If he continued much longer he would be crawling on his hands and knees.

This is an atom: 
Quickly he turned in the direction of the timber. He had traveled three hours, he thought,
since abandoning his cabin to the flames. Another half hour, with the caution of slower, shorter
steps, brought him to the timber. Luck was with him and he cried aloud to Peter as he felt
himself in the darkness of a dense cover of spruce and balsam. He freed himself from his entangled
snowshoes and went on deeper into the shelter. It became warmer and they could feel no longer
a breath of the wind.

This is an atom: 
He unloaded his pack and drew from it a jackpine torch, dried in his cabin and heavy with pitch.
Shortly the flare of this torch lighted up their refuge for a dozen paces about them. In the
illumination of it, moving it from place to place, he gathered dry fire wood and with his axe
cut down green spruce for the smouldering back-fire that would last until morning. By the time
the torch had consumed itself the fire was burning, and where Jolly Roger had scraped away
the snow from the thick carpet of spruce needles underfoot he piled a thick mass of balsam
boughs, and in the center of the bed he buried himself, wrapped warmly in his blankets, and
with Peter snuggled close at his side.

This is an atom: 
Through dark hours the green spruce fire burned slowly and steadily. For a long time there
was wailing of wind out in the open. But at last it died away, and utter stillness filled the
world. No life moved in these hours which followed the giving up of the big storm's last gasping
breath. Slowly the sky cleared. Here and there a star burned through. But Jolly Roger and Peter,
deep in the sleep of exhaustion, knew nothing of the change.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XVI

This is an atom: 
It was Peter who roused Jolly Roger many hours later; Peter nosing about the still burning
embers of the fire, and at last muzzling his master's face with increasing anxiety. McKay sat
up out of his nest of balsam boughs and blankets and caught the bright glint of sunlight through
the treetops. He rubbed his eyes and stared again to make sure. Then he looked at his watch.
It was ten o'clock and peering in the direction of the open he saw the white edge of it glistening
in the unclouded blaze of a sun. It was the first sun-- the first real sun--he had seen for
many days, and with Peter he went to the rim of the barren a hundred yards distant. He wanted
to shout. As far as he could see the white plain was ablaze with eye-blinding light, and never
had the sky at Cragg's Ridge been clearer than the sky that was over him now.

This is an atom: 
He returned to the fire, singing. Back through the months leapt Peter's memory to the time
when his master had sung like that. It was in Indian Tom's cabin, with Cragg's Ridge just beyond
the creek, and it was in those days before Terence Cassidy had come to drive them to another
hiding place; in the happy days of Nada's visits and of their trysts under the Ridge, when
even the little gray mother mouse lived in a paradise with her nest of babies in the box on
their cabin shelf. He had almost forgotten but it came back to him now. It was the old Jolly
Roger--the old master come to life again.

This is an atom: 
In the clear stillness of the morning one might have heard that shouting song half a mile away.
But McKay was no longer afraid. As the storm seemed to have cleaned the world so the sun cleared
his soul of its last shadow of doubt. It was not merely an omen or a promise, but for him proclaimed
a certainty. God was with him. Life was with him. His world was opening its arms to him again--
and he sang as if Nada was only a mile away from him instead of a thousand.

This is an atom: 
When he went on, after their breakfast, he laughed at the thought of Breault discovering their
trail. The Ferret would be more than human to do that after what wind and storm and fire had
done for them.

This is an atom: 
This first day of their pilgrimage into the southland was a day of glory from its beginning
until the setting of the sun. There was no cloud in the sky. And it grew warmer, until Jolly
Roger flung back the hood of his parkee and turned up the fur of his cap. That night a million
stars lighted the heaven.

This is an atom: 
After this first day and night nothing could break down the hope and confidence of Jolly Roger
and his, dog. Peter knew they were going south, in which direction lay everything he had ever
yearned for; and each night beside their campfire McKay made a note with pencil and paper and
measured the distance they had come and the distance they had yet to go. Hope in a little while
became certainty. Into his mind urged no thought of changes that might have taken place at
Cragg's Ridge; or, if the thought did come, it caused him no uneasiness. Now that Jed Hawkins
was dead Nada would be with the little old Missioner in whose care he had left her, and not
for an instant did a doubt cloud the growing happiness of his anticipations. Breault and the
hunters of the law were the one worry that lay ahead and behind him. If he outwitted them he
would find Nada waiting for him.

This is an atom: 
Day after day they kept south and west until they struck the Thelon; and then through a country
unmapped, and at times terrific in its cold and storm, they fought steadily to the frozen regions
of the Dubawnt waterways. Only once in the first three weeks did they seek human company. This
was at a small Indian camp where Jolly Roger bartered for caribou meat and moccasins for Peter's
feet. Twice between there and God's Lake they stopped at trappers' cabins.

This is an atom: 
It was early in March when they struck the Lost Lake country, three hundred miles from Cragg's
Ridge.

This is an atom: 
And here it was, buried under a blind of soft snow, that Peter nosed out the frozen carcass
of a disemboweled buck which Boileau, the French trapper, had poisoned for wolves. Jolly Roger
had built a fire and was warming half a pint of deer tallow for a baking of bannock, when Peter
dragged himself in, his rear legs already stiffening with the palsy of strychnine. In a dozen
seconds McKay had the warm tallow down Peter's throat, to the last drop of it; and this he
followed with another dose as quickly as he could heat it, and in the end Peter gave up what
he had eaten.

This is an atom: 
Half an hour later Boileau, who was eating his dinner, jumped up in wonderment when the door
of his cabin was suddenly opened by a grim and white-faced man who carried the limp body of
a dog in his arms.

This is an atom: 
For a long time after this the shadow of death hung over the Frenchman's trapping-shack. To
Boileau, with his brotherly sympathy and regret that his poison-bait had brought calamity,
Peter was "just dog." But when at last he saw the strong shoulders of the grim-faced stranger
shaking over Peter's paralyzed body and listened to the sobbing grief that broke in passionate
protest from his white lips, he drew back a little awed. It seemed for a time that Peter was
dead; and in those moments Jolly Roger put his arms about him and buried his despairing face
in Peter's scraggly neck, calling in a wild fit of anguish for him to come back, to live, to
open his eyes again. Boileau, crossing himself, felt of Peter's body and McKay heard his voice
over him, saying that the dog was not dead, but that his heart was beating steadily and that
he thought the last stiffening blow of the poison was over. To McKay it was like bringing the
dead back to life. He raised his head and drew away his arms and knelt beside the bunk stunned
and mutely hopeful while Boileau took his place and began dropping warm condensed milk down
Peter's throat. In a little while Peter's eyes opened and he gave a great sigh.

This is an atom: 
Boileau looked up and shrugged his shoulders.

This is an atom: 
"That was a good breath, m'sieu," he said. "What is left of the poison has done its worst.
He will live."

This is an atom: 
A bit stupidly McKay rose to his feet. He swayed a little, and for the first time sensed the
hot tears that had blinded his eyes and wet his cheeks. And then there came a sobbing laugh
out of his throat and he went to the window of the Frenchman's shack and stared out into the
white world, seeing nothing. He had stood in the presence of death many times before but never
had that presence choked up his heart as in this hour when the soul of Peter, his comrade,
had stood falteringly for a space half-way between the living and the dead.

This is an atom: 
When he turned from the window Boileau was covering Peter's body with blankets and a warm bear
skin. And for many days thereafter Peter was nursed through the slow sickness which followed.

This is an atom: 
An early spring came this year in the northland. South of the Reindeer waterway country the
snows were disappearing late in March and ice was rotting the first week in April. Winds came
from the south and west and the sun was warmer and clearer than Boileau had ever known it at
the winter's end in Lost Lake country. It was in this first week of April that Peter was able
to travel, and McKay pointed his trail once more for Cragg's Ridge

This is an atom: 
He left a part of his winter dunnage at Boileau's shack and went on light, figuring to reach
Cragg's Ridge before the new "goose moon" had worn itself out in the west. But for a week Peter
lagged and until the darker red in the rims of his eyes cleared away Jolly Roger checked the
impetus of his travel so that the goose moon had faded out and the "frog moon" of May was in
its full before they came down the last slope that dipped from the Height of Land to the forests
and lakes of the lower country.

This is an atom: 
And now, in these days, it seemed to Jolly Roger that a great kindness, and not tragedy, had
delayed him so that his "home coming" was in the gladness of spring. All about him was the
sweetness and mystic whispering of new life just awakening. It was in the sky and the sun;
it was underfoot, in the fragrance of the mold he trod upon, in the trees about him, and in
the mate- chirping of the birds flocking back from the southland. His friends the jays were
raucous and jaunty again, bullying and bluffing in the warmth of sunshine; the black glint
of crows' wings flashed across the opens; the wood-sappers and pewees and big-eyed moose-birds
were aflutter with the excitement of home planning; partridges were feasting on the swelling
poplar buds-- and then, one glorious sunset, he heard the chirruping evening song of his first
robin.

This is an atom: 
And the next day they would reach Cragg's Ridge!

This is an atom: 
Half of that last night he sat up, awake, or smoked in the glow of his fire, waiting for the
dawn. With the first lifting of darkness he was traveling swiftly ahead of Peter and the morning
was only half gone when he saw far ahead of him the great ridge which shut out Indian Tom's
swamp, and Nada's plain, and Cragg's Ridge beyond it.

This is an atom: 
It was noon when he stood at the crest of this. He was breathing hard, for to reach this last
precious height from which he might look upon the country of Nada's home he had half run up
its rock- strewn side. There, with his lungs gasping for air, his eager eyes shot over the
country below him and for a moment the significance of the thing which he saw did not strike
him. And then in another instant it seemed that his heart choked up, like a fist suddenly tightened,
and stopped its beating.

This is an atom: 
Reaching away from him, miles upon miles of it, east, west and south--was a dead and char-stricken
world.

This is an atom: 
Up to the foot of the ridge itself had come the devastation of flame, and where it had swept,
months ago, there was now no sign of the glorious spring that lay behind him.

This is an atom: 
He looked for Indian Tom's swamp, and where it had been there was no longer a swamp but a stricken
chaos of ten thousand black stubs, the shriven corpses of the spruce and cedar and jackpines
out of which the wolves had howled at night.

This is an atom: 
He looked for the timber on Sucker Creek where the little old Missioner's cabin lay, and where
he had dreamed that Nada would be waiting for him. And he saw no timber there but only the
littleness and emptiness of a blackened world.

This is an atom: 
And then he looked to Cragg's Ridge, and along the bald crest of it, naked as death, he saw
blackened stubs pointing skyward, painting desolation against the blue of the heaven beyond.

This is an atom: 
A cry came from him, a cry of fear and of horror, for he was looking upon the fulfilment of
Yellow Bird's prediction. He seemed to hear, whispering softly in his ears, the low, sweet
voice of the sorceress, as on the night when she had told him that if he returned to Cragg's
Ridge he would find a world that had turned black with ruin and that it would not be there
he would ever find Nada.

This is an atom: 
After that one sobbing cry he tore like a madman dawn into the valley, traveling swiftly through
the muck of fire and under-foot tangle with Peter fighting behind him. Half an hour later he
stood where the Missioner's cabin had been and he found only a ruin of ash and logs burned
down to the earth. Where the trail had run there was no longer a trail. A blight, grim and
sickening, lay upon the earth that had been paradise.

This is an atom: 
Peter heard the choking sound in his master's throat and chest. He, too, sensed the black shadow
of tragedy and cautiously he sniffed the air, knowing that at last they were home--and yet
it was not home. Instinctively he had faced Cragg's Ridge and Jolly Roger, seeing the dog's
stiffened body pointing toward the break beyond which lay Nada's old home, felt a thrill of
hope leap up within him. Possibly the farther plain had escaped the scourge of fire. If so,
Nada would be there, and the Missioner--

This is an atom: 
He started for the break, a mile away. As he came nearer to it his hope grew less for he could
see where the flames had swept in an inundating sea along Cragg's Ridge. They passed over the
meadow where the thick young jackpines, the red strawberries and the blue violets had been
and Peter heard the strange sob when they came to the little hollow--the old trysting place
where Nada had first given herself into his master's arms. And there it was that Peter forgot
master and caution and sped swiftly ahead to the break that cut the Ridge in twain.

This is an atom: 
When Jolly Roger came to that break and ran through it he was staggering from the mad effort
he had made. And then, all at once, the last of his wind came in a cry of gladness. He swayed
against a rock and stood there staring wild-eyed at what was before him. The world was as black
ahead of him as it was behind. But Jed Hawkins' cabin was untouched! The fire had crept up
to its very door and there it had died.

This is an atom: 
He went on the remaining hundred yards and before the closed door of Nada's old home he found
Peter standing stiff-legged and strange. He opened the door and a damp chill touched his face.
The cabin was empty. And the gloom and desolation of a grave filled the place.

This is an atom: 
He stepped in, a moaning whisper of the truth coming to his lips. He heard the scurrying flight
of a starved wood-rat, a flutter of loose papers, and then the silence of death fell about
him. The door of Nada's little room was open and he entered through it. The bed was naked and
there remained only the skeleton of things that had been.

This is an atom: 
He moved now like a man numbed by a strange sickness and Peter followed gloomily and silently
in the footsteps of his master. They went outside and a distance away Jolly Roger saw a thing
rising up out of the char of fire, ugly and foreboding, like the evil spirit of desolation
itself. It was a rude cross made of saplings, up which the flames had licked their way, searing
it grim and black.

This is an atom: 
His hands clenched slowly for he knew that under the cross lay the body of Jed Hawkins, the
fiend who had destroyed his world.

This is an atom: 
After that he re-entered the cabin and went into Nada's room, closing the door behind him;
and for many minutes thereafter Peter remained outside guarding the outer door, and hearing
no sound or movement from within.

This is an atom: 
When Jolly Roger came out his face was set and white, and he looked where the thick forest
had stood on that stormy night when he ran down the trail toward Mooney's cabin. There was
no forest now. But he found the old tie-cutters' road, cluttered as it was with the debris
of fire, and he knew when he came to that twist in the trail where long ago Jed Hawkins had
lain dead on his back. Half a mile beyond he came to the railroad. Here it was that the fire
had burned hottest, for as far as his vision went he could see no sign of life or of forest
green alight in the waning sun.

This is an atom: 
And now there fell upon him, along with the desolation of despair, a something grimmer and
more terrible--a thing that was fear. About him everywhere reached this graveyard of death,
leaving no spot untouched. Was it possible that Nada and the Missioner had not escaped its
fury? The fear settled upon him more heavily as the sun went down and the gloom of evening
came, bringing with it an unpleasant chill and a cloying odor of things burned dead.

This is an atom: 
He did not talk to Peter now. There was a lamp in the cabin and wood behind the stove, and
silently he built a fire and trimmed and lighted the wick when darkness came. And Peter, as
if hiding from the ghosts of yesterday, slunk into a corner and lay there unmoving and still.
And McKay did not get supper nor did he smoke, but after a long time he carried his blankets
into Nada's room, and spread them out upon her bed. Then he put out the light and quietly laid
himself down where through the nights of many a month and year Nada had slept in the moon glow.

This is an atom: 
The moon was there tonight. The faint glow of it rose in the east and swiftly it climbed over
the ragged shoulder of Cragg's Ridge, flooding the blackened world with light and filling the
room with a soft and golden radiance. It was a moon undimmed, full and round and yellow; and
it seemed to smile in through the window as if some living spirit in it had not yet missed
Nada, and was embracing her in its glory. And now it came upon Jolly Roger why she had loved
it even more than she had loved the sun; for through the little window it shut out all the
rest of the world, and sitting up, he seemed to hear her heart beating at his side and clearly
he saw her face in the light of it and her slim arms out- reaching, as if to gather it to her
breast. Thus--many times, she had told him--had she sat up in her bed to greet the moon and
to look for the smiling face that was almost always there, the face of the Man in the Moon,
her friend and playmate in the sky.

This is an atom: 
For a space his heart leapt up; and then, as if discovery of the usurper in her room had come,
a cloud swept over the face of the moon like a mighty hand and darkness crowded him in. But
the cloud sailed on and the light drove out the gloom again. Then it was that Jolly Roger saw
the Old Man in the Moon was up and awake tonight, for never had he seen his face more clearly.
Often had Nada pointed it out to him in her adorable faith that the Old Man loved her, telling
him how this feature changed and that feature changed, how sometimes the Old Man looked sick
and at others well, and how there were times when he smiled and was happy and other times when
he was sad and stern and sat there in his castle in the sky sunk in a mysterious grief which
she could not understand.

This is an atom: 
"And always I can tell whether I'm going to be glad or sorry by the look of the Man in the
Moon," she had said to him. "He looks down and tells me even when the clouds are thick and
he can only peep through now and then. And he knows a lot about you, Mister-- Jolly Roger--because
I've told him everything."

This is an atom: 
Very quietly Jolly Roger got up from the bed and very strange seemed his manner to Peter as
he walked through the outer room and into the night beyond. There he stood making no sound
or movement, like one of the lifeless stubs left by fire; and Peter looked up, as his master
was looking, trying to make out what it was he saw in the sky. And nothing was there--nothing
that he had not seen many times before; a billion stars, and the moon riding King among them
all, and fleecy clouds as if made of web, and stillness, a great stillness that was like sleep
in the lap of the world.

This is an atom: 
For a little Jolly Roger was silent and then Peter heard him saying,

This is an atom: 
"Yellow Bird was right--again. She said we'd find a black world down here and we've found it.
And we're going to find Nada where she told us we'd find her, in that place she called The
Country Beyond--the country beyond the forests, beyond the tall trees and the big swamps, beyond
everything we've ever known of the wild and open spaces; the country where God lives in churches
on Sunday and where people would laugh at some of our queer notions, Pied-Bot. It's there we'll
find Nada, driven out by the fire, and waiting for us now in the settlements."

This is an atom: 
He spoke with a strange and quiet conviction, the haggard look dying out of his face as he
stared up into the splendor of the sky.

This is an atom: 
And then he said.

This is an atom: 
"We won't sleep tonight, Peter. We'll travel with the moon."

This is an atom: 
Half an hour later, as the lonely figures of man and dog headed for the first settlement a
dozen miles away, there seemed to come for an instant the flash of a satisfied smile in the
face of the Man in the sky.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XVII

This is an atom: 
From the cabin McKay went first to the great rock that jutted from the broken shoulder of Cragg's
Ridge, and as they stood there Peter heard the strange something that was like a laugh, and
yet was not a laugh, on his master's lips. But his scraggly face did not look up. There was
an answering whimper in his throat. He had been slow in sensing the significance of the mysterious
thing that had changed his old home since months ago. During the hours of afternoon, and these
moonlit hours that followed, he tried to understand. He knew this was home. Yet the green grass
was gone, and a million trees had changed into blackened stubs. The world was no longer shut
in by deep forests. And Cragg's Ridge was naked where he and Nada had romped in sunshine and
flowers, and out of it all rose the mucky death-smell of the flame-swept earth. These things
he understood, in his dog way. But what he could not understand clearly was why Nada was not
in the cabin, and why they did not find her, even though the world was changed.

This is an atom: 
He sat back on his haunches, and Jolly Roger heard again the whimpering grief in his throat.
It comforted the man to know that Peter remembered, and he was not alone in his desolation.
Gently he placed a soot-grimed hand on his comrade's head.

This is an atom: 
"Peter, it was from this rock--right where we're standing now-- that I first saw her, a long
time ago," he said, a bit of forced cheer breaking through the huskiness of his voice. "Remember
the little jackpine clump down there? You climbed up onto her lap, a little know-nothing thing,
and you pawed in her loose curls, and growled so fiercely I could hear you. And when I made
a noise, and she looked up, I thought she was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen--just
a kid, with those eyes like the flowers, and her hair shining in the sun, an' tear stains on
her cheeks. Tear stains, Pied-Bot--because of that snake who's dead over there. Remember how
you growled at me, Peter?"

This is an atom: 
Peter wriggled an answer.

This is an atom: 
"That was the beginning," said Jolly Roger, "and this--looks like the end. But--"

This is an atom: 
He clenched his fists, and there was a sudden fierceness in the grotesque movement of his shadow
on the rock.

This is an atom: 
"We're going to find her before that end comes," he added defiantly. "We're going to find her,
Pied-Bot, even if it takes us to the settlements--right up into the face of the law."

This is an atom: 
He set out over the rocks, his boots making hollow sounds in the deadness of the world about
them. Again he followed where once had been the trail that led to Mooney's shack, over on the
wobbly line of rail that rambled for eighty miles into the wilderness from Fort William. The
P. D. & W. it was named--Port Arthur, Duluth & Western; but it had never reached Duluth, and
there were those who had nicknamed it Poverty, Destruction & Want. Many times Jolly Roger had
laughed at the queer stories Nada told him about it; how a wrecking outfit was always carried
behind on the twice-a-week train, and how the crew picked berries in season, and had their
trapping lines, and once chased a bear half way to Whitefish Lake while the train waited for
hours. She called it the "Cannon Ball," because once upon a time it had made sixty-nine miles
in twenty- four hours. But there was nothing of humor about it as Jolly Roger and Peter came
out upon it tonight. It stretched out both ways from them, a thin, grim line of tragedy in
the moonlight, and from where they stood it appeared to reach into a black and abysmal sea.

This is an atom: 
Once more man and dog paused, and looked back at what had been. And the whine came in Peter's
throat again and something tugged inside him, urging him to bark up into the face of the moon,
as he had often barked for Nada in the days of his puppyhood, and afterward.

This is an atom: 
But his master went on and Peter followed him, stepping the uneven ties one by one. And with
the black chaos of the world under and about them, and the glorious light of the moon filling;
the sky over their heads, the journey they made seemed weirdly unreal. For the silver and gold
of the moon and the black muck of the fire refused to mingle, and while over their heads they
could see the tiniest clouds and beyond to the farthest stars, all was black emptiness when
they looked about them upon what once had been a living earth. Only the two lines of steel
caught the moon-glow and the charred ends of the fire-shriven stubs that rose up out of the
earth shroud and silhouetted themselves against the sky.

This is an atom: 
To Peter it was not what he failed to see, but what he did not hear or smell that oppressed
him and stirred him to wide-eyed watchfulness against impending evil. Under many moons he had
traveled with his master in their never-ending flight from the law, and many other nights with
neither moon nor stars had they felt out their trails together. But always, under him and over
him on all sides of him, there had been LIFE. And tonight there was no life, nor smell of life.
There was no chirp of night bird, or flutter of owl's wing, no plash of duck or cry of loon.
He listened in vain for the crinkling snap of twig, and the whisper of wind in treetops. And
there was no smell--no musk of mink that had crossed his path, no taste in the air of the strong
scented fox, no subtle breath of partridge and rabbit and fleshy porcupine. And even from the
far distances there came no sound, no howl of wolf, no castanet clatter of stout moose horns
against bending saplings--not even the howl of a trapper's dog.

This is an atom: 
The stillness was of the earth, and yet unearthly. It was even as if some fearsome thing was
smothering the sound of his master's feet. To McKay, sensing these same things that Peter sensed,
came understanding that brought with it an uneasiness which changed swiftly into the chill
of a growing fear. The utter lifelessness told him how vast the destruction of the fire had
been. Its obliteration was so great no life had adventured back into the desolated country,
though the conflagration must have passed in the preceding autumn, many months ago. The burned
country was a grave and the nearest edge of it, judged from the sepulchral stillness of the
night, was many miles away.

This is an atom: 
For the first time came the horror of the thought that in such a fire as this people must have
died. It had swept upon them like a tidal wave, galloping the forests with the speed of a race
horse, with only this thin line of rail leading to the freedom of life outside. In places only
a miracle could have made escape possible. And here, where Nada had lived, with the pitch-wood
forests crowding close, the fire must have burned most fiercely. In this moment, when fear
of the unspeakable set his heart trembling, his faith fastened itself grimly to the little
old gray Missioner, Father John, in whose cabin Nada had taken refuge many months ago, when
Jed Hawkins lay dead in the trail with his one-eyed face turned up to the thunder and lightning
in the sky. Father John, on that stormy night when he fled north, had promised to care for
Nada, and in silence he breathed a prayer that the Missioner had saved her from the red death
that had swept like an avalanche upon them. He told himself it must be so. He cried out the
words aloud, and Peter heard him, and followed closer, so that his head touched his master's
leg as he walked.

This is an atom: 
But the fear was there. From a spark it grew into a red-hot spot in Jolly Roger's heart. Twice
in his own life he had raced against death in a forest fire. But never had he seen a fire like
this must have been. All at once he seemed to hear the roar of it in his ears, the rolling
thunder of the earth as it twisted in the cataclysm of flame, the hissing shriek of the flaming
pitch-tops as they leapt in lightning fires against the smoke-smothered sky. A few hours ago
he had stood where Father John's Cabin had been and the place was a ruin of char and ash. If
the fire had hemmed them in and they had not escaped--

This is an atom: 
His voice cried out in sudden protest.

This is an atom: 
"It can't be, Peter. It can't be! They made the rail--or the lake --and we'll find them in
the settlements. It couldn't happen. God wouldn't let her die like that!"

This is an atom: 
He stopped, and stared into the moon-broken gloom on his left. Something was there, fifty feet
away, that drew him down through the muck which lay knee deep in the right-of-way ditch. It
was what was left of the cutter's cabin, a clutter of burned logs, a wind scattered heap of
ash. Even there, within arm's reach of the railroad, there had been no salvation from the fire.

This is an atom: 
He waded again through the muck of the ditch, and went on. Mentally and physically he was fighting
the ogre that was striving to achieve possession of his brain. Over and over he repeated his
faith that Nada and the Missioner had escaped and he would find them in the settlements. Less
than ever he thought of the law in these hours. What happened to himself was of small importance
now, if he could find Nada alive before the menace caught up with him from behind, or ambushed
him ahead. Yet the necessity of caution impinged itself upon him even in the recklessness of
his determination to find her if he had to walk into the arms of the law that was hunting him.

This is an atom: 
For an hour they went on, and as the moon sank westward it seemed to turn its face to look
at them; and behind them, when they looked back, the world was transformed into a black pit,
while ahead--with the glow of it streaming over their shoulders--ghostly shapes took form,
and vision reached farther. Twice they caught the silvery gleam of lakes through the tree-stubs,
and again they walked with the rippling murmur of a stream that kept for a mile within the
sound of their ears. But even here, with water crying out its invitation to life, there was
no life.

This is an atom: 
Another hour after that Jolly Roger's pulse beat a little faster as he strained his eyes to
see ahead. Somewhere near, within a mile or two, was the first settlement with its sawmill
and its bunkhouses, its one store and its few cabins, with flat mountains of sawdust on one
side of it, and the evergreen forest creeping up to its doors on the other. Surely they would
find life here, where there had been man power to hold fire back from the clearing. And it
was here he might find Nada and the Missioner, for more than once Father John had preached
to the red-cheeked women and children and the clear-eyed men of the Finnish community that
thrived there.

This is an atom: 
But as they drew nearer he listened in vain for the bark of a dog, and his eyes quested as
futilely for a point of light in the wide canopy of gloom. At last, close together, they rounded
a curve in the road, and crossed a small bridge with a creek running below, and McKay knew
his arm should be able to send a stone to what he was seeking ahead. And then, a minute later,
he drew in a great gasping breath of unbelief and horror.

This is an atom: 
For the settlement was no longer in the clearing between him and the rim-glow of the moon.
No living tree raised its head against the sky, no sign of cabin or mill shadowed the earth,
and where the store had been, and the little church with its white-painted cross, was only
a chaos of empty gloom.

This is an atom: 
He went down, as he had gone to the tie cutter's cabin, and for many minutes he stared and
listened, while Peter seemed to stand without breathing. Then making a wide megaphone of his
hands, he shouted. It was an alarming thing to do and Peter started as if struck. For there
were only ghosts to answer back and the hollowness of a shriven pit for the cry to travel in.
Nothing was there. Even the great sawdust piles had shrunk into black scars under the scourge
of the fire.

This is an atom: 
A groaning agony was in the breath of Jolly Roger's lips as he went back to the railroad and
hurried on Death must have come here, death sudden and swift. And if it had fallen upon the
Finnish settlement, with its strong women and its stronger men, what might it not have done
in the cabin of the little old gray Missioner--and Nada?

This is an atom: 
For a long time after that he forgot Peter was with him. He forgot everything but his desire
to reach a living thing. At times, where the road-bed was smooth, he almost ran, and at others
he paused for a little to gather his breath and listen. And it was Peter, in one of these intervals,
who caught the first message of life. From a long distance away came faintly the barking of a dog.

This is an atom: 
Half a mile farther on they came to a clearing where no stubs of trees stood up like question
marks against the sky, and in this clearing was a cabin, a dark blotch that was without light
or sound. But from behind it the dog barked again, and Jolly Roger made quickly toward it.
Here there was no ash under his feet, and he knew that at last he had found an oasis of life
in the desolation. Loudly he knocked with his fist at the cabin door and soon there was a response
inside, the heavy movement of a man's body getting out of bed, and after that the questioning
voice of a woman. He knocked again and the flare of a lighted match illumined the window. Then
came the drawing of a bar at the door and a man stood there in his night attire, a man with
a heavy face and bristling beard, and a lamp in his hand.

This is an atom: 
"I beg your pardon for waking you," said Jolly Roger, "but I am just down from the north, hoping
to find my friends back here and I have seen nothing but destruction and death. You are the
first living soul I have found to ask about them."

This is an atom: 
"Where were they?" grunted the man.

This is an atom: 
"At Cragg's Ridge."

This is an atom: 
"Then God help them," came the woman's voice from back in the room.

This is an atom: 
"Cragg's Ridge," said the man, "was a burning hell in the middle of the night."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger's fingers dug into the wood at the edge of the door.

This is an atom: 
"You mean--"

This is an atom: 
"A lot of 'em died," said the man stolidly, as if eager to rid himself of the one who had broken
his sleep. "If it was Mooney, he's dead. An' if it was Robson, or Jake the Swede, or the Adams
family--they're dead, too."

This is an atom: 
"But it wasn't," said Jolly Roger, his heart choking between fear and hope. "It was Father
John, the Missioner, and Nada Hawkins, who lived with him--or with her foster-mother in the
Hawkins' cabin."

This is an atom: 
The man shook his head, and turned down the wick of his lamp.

This is an atom: 
"I dunno about the girl, or the old witch who was her mother," he said, "but the Missioner
made it out safe, and went to the settlements."

This is an atom: 
"And no girl was with him?"

This is an atom: 
"No, there was no girl," came the woman's voice again, and Peter jerked up his ears at the
creaking of a bed. "Father John stopped here the second day after the fire had passed, and
he said he was gathering up the bones of the dead. Nada Hawkins wasn't with him, and he didn't
say who had died and who hadn't. But I think--"

This is an atom: 
She stopped as the bearded man turned toward her.

This is an atom: 
"You think what?" demanded Jolly Roger, stepping half into the room.

This is an atom: 
"I think," said the woman, "that she died along with the others. Anyway, Jed Hawkins' witch-woman
was burned trying to make for the lake, and little of her was left."

This is an atom: 
The man with the lamp made a movement as if to close the door.

This is an atom: 
"That's all we know," he growled.

This is an atom: 
"For God's sake--don't!" entreated Jolly Roger, barring the door with his arm. "Surely there
were some who escaped from Cragg's Ridge and beyond!"

This is an atom: 
"Mebby a half, mebby less," said the man. "I tell you it burned like hell, and the worst of
it came in the middle of the night with a wind behind it that blew a hurricane. We've twenty
acres cleared here, with the cabin in the center of it, an' it singed my beard and burned her
hair and scorched our hands, and my pigs died out there from the heat of it. Mebby it's a place
to sleep in for the night you want, stranger?"

This is an atom: 
"No, I'm going on," said Jolly Roger, the blood in his veins running with the chill of water.
"How far before I come to the end of fire?"

This is an atom: 
"Ten miles on. It started this side of the next settlement."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger drew back and the door closed, and standing on the railroad once more he saw the
light go out and after that the occasional barking of the settler's dog grew fainter and fainter
behind them.

This is an atom: 
He felt a great weariness in his bones and body now. With hope struck down the exhaustion of
two nights and a day without sleep seized upon him and his feet plodded more and more slowly
over the uneven ties of the road. Even in his weariness he fought madly against the thought
that Nada was dead and he repeated the word "impossible--impossible" so often that it ran in
sing-song through his brain. And he could not keep away from him the white, thin face of the
Missioner, who had promised on his faith In God to care for Nada, and who had passed the settler's
cabin ALONE.

This is an atom: 
Another two hours they went on and then came the first of the green timber. Under the shelter
of some balsams Jolly Roger found a resting place and there they waited for the break of dawn.
Peter stretched out and slept. But Jolly Roger sat with his head and shoulders against the
bole of a tree, and not until the light of the moon was driven away by the darkness that preceded
dawn by an hour or two did his eyes close in restless slumber. He was roused by the wakening
twitter of birds and in the cold water of a creek that ran near he bathed his face and hands.
Peter wondered why there was no fire and no breakfast this morning.

This is an atom: 
The settlement was only a little way ahead and it was very early when they reached it. People
were still in their beds and out of only one chimney was smoke rising into the clear calm of
the breaking day. From this cabin a young man came, and stood for a moment after he had closed
the door, yawning and stretching his arms and looking up to see what sort of promise the sky
held for the day. After that he went to a stable of logs, and Jolly Roger followed him there.

This is an atom: 
He was unlike the bearded settler, and nodded with a youthful smile of cheer.

This is an atom: 
"Good morning," he said. "You're traveling early, and--"

This is an atom: 
He looked more keenly as his eyes took in Jolly Roger's boots and clothes, and the gray pallor
in his face.

This is an atom: 
"Just get in?" he asked kindly. "And--from the burnt country?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes, from the burnt country. I've been away a long time, and I'm trying to find out if my
friends are among the living or the dead. Did you ever hear of Father John, the Missioner at
Cragg's Ridge?"

This is an atom: 
The young man's face brightened.

This is an atom: 
"I knew him," he said. "He helped me to bury my brother, three years ago. And if it's him you
seek, he is safe. He went up to Fort William a week after the fire, and that was in September,
eight months past."

This is an atom: 
"And was there with him a girl named Nada Hawkins?" asked Jolly Roger, trying hard to speak
calmly as he looked into the other's face.

This is an atom: 
The youth shook his head.

This is an atom: 
"No, he was alone. He slept in my cabin overnight, and he said nothing of a girl named Nada
Hawkins."

This is an atom: 
"Did he speak of others?"

This is an atom: 
"He was very tired, and I think he was half dead with grief at what had happened. He spoke
no names that I remember."

This is an atom: 
Then he saw the gray look in Jolly Roger's face grow deeper, and saw the despair which could
not hide itself in his eyes.

This is an atom: 
"But there were a number of girls who passed here, alone or with their friends," he said hopefully.
"What sort of looking girl was Nada Hawkins?"

This is an atom: 
"A--kid. That's what I called her," said Jolly Roger, in a dead, cold voice. "Eighteen, and
beautiful, with blue eyes, and brown hair that she couldn't keep from blowing in curls about
her face. So like an angel you wouldn't forget her if you'd seen her--just once."

This is an atom: 
Gently the youth placed a hand on Jolly Roger's arm.

This is an atom: 
"She didn't come this way," he said, "but maybe you'll find her somewhere else. Won't you have
breakfast with me? I've a stranger in the cabin, still sleeping, who's going into the fire
country from which you've come. He's hunting for some one, and maybe you can give him information.
He's going to Cragg's Ridge."

This is an atom: 
"Cragg's Ridge!" exclaimed Jolly Roger. "What is his name?"

This is an atom: 
"Breault," said the youth. "Sergeant Breault, of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger turned to stroke the neck of a horse waiting for its morning feed. But he felt
nothing of the touch of flesh under his hand. Cold as iron went his heart, and for half a minute
he made no answer. Then he said:

This is an atom: 
"Thanks, friend. I breakfasted before it was light and I'm hitting out into the brush west
and north, for the Rainy River country. Please don't tell this man Breault that you saw me,
for he'll think badly of me for not waiting to give him information he might want. But--you
understand--if you loved the brother who died--that it's hard for me to talk with anyone just now."

This is an atom: 
The young man's fingers touched his arm again.

This is an atom: 
"I understand," he said, "and I hope to God you'll find her."

This is an atom: 
Silently they shook hands, and Jolly Roger hurried away from the cabin with the rising spiral
of smoke.

This is an atom: 
Three days later a man and a dog came from the burned country into the town of Fort William,
seeking for a wandering messenger of God who called himself Father John, and a young and beautiful
girl whose name was Nada Hawkins. He stopped first at the old mission, in whose shadow the
Indians and traders of a century before had bartered their wares, and Father Augustine, the
aged patriarch who talked with him, murmured as he went that he was a strange man, and a sick
one, with a little madness lurking in his eyes.

This is an atom: 
And it was, in fact, a madness of despair eating out the life in Jolly Roger's heart. For he
no longer had hope Nada had escaped the fire, even though at no place had he found a conclusive
evidence of her death. But that signified little, for there were many of the missing who had
not been found between the last of September and these days of May. What he did find, with
deadly regularity, was the fact that Father John had escaped--and that he had traveled to safety
ALONE.

This is an atom: 
And Father Augustine told him that when Father John stopped to rest for a few days at the Mission
he was heading north, for somewhere on Pashkokogon Lake near the river Albany.

This is an atom: 
There was little rest for Peter and his master at Fort William town. That Breault must be close
on their trail, and following it with the merciless determination of the ferret from which
he had been named, there was no shadow of doubt in the mind of Jolly Roger McKay. So after
outfitting his pack at a little corner shop, where Breault would be slow to enquire about him,
he struck north through the bush toward Dog Lake and the river of the same name. Five or six
days, he thought, would bring him to Father John and the truth which he dreaded more and more
to hear.

This is an atom: 
The despondency of his master had sunk, in some mysterious way, into the soul of Peter. Without
the understanding of language he sensed the oppressive gloom of tragedy behind and about him
and there was a wolfish slinking in the manner of his travel now, and his confidence was going
as he caught the disease of despair of the man who traveled with him. But constantly and vigilantly
his eyes and scent were questing about them, suspicious of the very winds that whispered in
the treetops. And at night after they had built their little cooking fire in the deepest heart
of the bush he would lie half awake during the hours of darkness, the watchfulness of his senses
never completely dulled in the stupor of sleep.

This is an atom: 
Since the night they had stopped at the settler's cabin Jolly Roger's face had grown grayer
and thinner. A number of times he had tried to assure himself what he would do in that moment
which was coming when he would stand face to face with Breault the man- hunter. His caution,
after he left Fort William, was in a way an automatic instinct that worked for self-preservation
in face of the fact that he was growing less and less concerned regarding Breault's appearance.
It was not in his desire to delay the end much longer. The chase had been a long one, with
its thrills and its happiness at times, but now he was growing tired and with Nada gone there
was only hopeless gloom ahead. If she were dead he wanted to go to her. That thought was a
dawning pleasure in his breast, and it was warm in his heart when he tied in a hard knot the
buckskin string which locked the flap of his pistol holster. When Breault overtook him the
law would know, because of the significance of this knot, that he had welcomed the end of the game.

This is an atom: 
Never in the northland had there come a spring more beautiful than this of the year in which
McKay and his dog went through the deep wilds to Pashkokogon Lake. In a few hours, it seemed,
the last chill died out of the air and there came the soft whispers of those bridal-weeks between
May and Summer, a month ahead of their time. But Jolly Roger, for the first time in his life,
failed to respond to the wonder and beauty of the earth's rejoicing. The first flowers did
not fill him with the old joy. He no longer stood up straight, with expanding chest, to drink
in the rare sweetness of air weighted with the tonic of balsams and cedar spruce. Vainly he
tried to lift up his soul with the song and bustle of mating things. There was no longer music
for him in the flood-time rushing of spring waters. An utter loneliness filled the cry of the
loon. And all about him was a vast emptiness from which the spirit of life had fled for him.

This is an atom: 
Thus he came at last to a stream in the Burntwood country which ran into Pashkokogon Lake;
and it was this day, in the mellow sunlight of late afternoon, that they heard coming to them
from out of the dense forest the chopping of an axe.

This is an atom: 
Toward this they made their way, with caution and no sound, until in a little clearing in a
bend of the stream they saw a cabin. It was a newly built cabin, and smoke was rising from
the chimney.

This is an atom: 
But the chopping was nearer them, in the heart of a thick cover of evergreen and birch. Into
this Jolly Roger and Peter made their way and came within a dozen steps of the man who was
wielding the axe. It was then that Jolly Roger rose up with a cry on his lips, for the man
was Father John the Missioner.

This is an atom: 
In spite of the tragedy through which he had passed the little gray man seemed younger than
in that month long ago when Jolly Roger had fled to the north. He dropped his axe now and stood
as if only half believing, a look of joy shining in his face as he realized the truth of what
had happened. "McKay," he cried, reaching out his hands. "McKay, my boy!"

This is an atom: 
A look of pity mellowed the gladness in his eyes as he noted the change in Jolly Roger's face,
and the despair that had set its mark upon it.

This is an atom: 
They stood for a moment with clasped hands, questioning and answering with the silence of their
eyes. And then the Missioner said:

This is an atom: 
"You have heard? Someone has told you?"

This is an atom: 
"No," said Jolly Roger, his head dropping a little. "No one has told me," and he was thinking
of Nada, and her death.

This is an atom: 
Father John's fingers tightened.

This is an atom: 
"It is strange how the ways of God bring themselves about," he spoke in a low voice. "Roger,
you did not kill Jed Hawkins!"

This is an atom: 
Dumbly, his lips dried of words, Jolly Roger stared at him.

This is an atom: 
"No, you didn't kill him," repeated Father John. "On that same night of the storm when you
thought you left him dead in the trail, he stumbled back to his cabin, alive. But God's vengeance
came soon.

This is an atom: 
"A few days later, while drunk, he missed his footing and fell from a ledge to his death. His
wife, poor creature, wished him buried in sight of the cabin door--"

This is an atom: 
But in this moment Roger McKay was thinking less of Breault the Ferret and the loosening of
the hangman's rope from about his neck than he was of another thing. And Father John was saying
in a voice that seemed far away and unreal:

This is an atom: 
"We've sent out word to all parts of the north, hoping someone would find you and send you
back. And she has prayed each night, and each hour of the day the same prayer has been in her
heart and on her lips. And now--"

This is an atom: 
Someone was coming to them from the direction of the cabin-- someone, a girl, and she was singing,

This is an atom: 
McKay's face went whiter than the gray ash of fire.

This is an atom: 
"My God," he whispered huskily. "I thought--she had died!"

This is an atom: 
It was only then Father John understood the meaning of what he had seen in his face.

This is an atom: 
"No, she is alive," he cried. "I sent her straight north through the bush with an Indian the
day after the fire. And later I left word for you with the Fire Relief Committee at Fort Wiliam,
where I thought you would first enquire."

This is an atom: 
"And it was there," said Jolly Roger, "that I did not enquire at all!"

This is an atom: 
In the edge of the clearing, close to the thicket of timber, Nada had stopped. For across the
open space a strange looking creature had raced at the sound of her voice; a dog with bristling
Airedale whiskers, and a hound's legs, and wild-wolf's body hardened and roughened by months
of fighting in the wilderness. As in the days of his puppyhood, Peter leapt up against her,
and a cry burst from Nada's lips, a wild and sobbing cry of PETER, PETER, PETER--and it was
this cry Jolly Roger heard as he tore away from Father John.

This is an atom: 
On her knees, with her arms about Peter's shaggy head, Nada stared wildly at the clump of timber,
and in a moment she saw a man break out of it, and stand still, as if the mellow sunlight blinded
him, and made him unable to move. And the same choking weakness was at her own heart as she
rose up from Peter, and reached out her arms toward the gray figure in the edge of the wood,
sobbing, trying to speak and yet saying no word.

This is an atom: 
And a little slower, because of his age, Father John came a moment later, and peered out with
the knowledge of long years from a thicket of young banksians, and when he saw the two in the
open, close in each other's arms, and Peter hopping madly about them, he drew out a handkerchief
and wiped his eyes, and went back then for the axe which he had dropped in the timber clump.

This is an atom: 
There was a great drumming in Jolly Roger's head, and for a time he failed even to hear Peter
yelping at their side, for all the world was drowned in those moments by the breaking sobs
in Nada's breath and the wild thrill of her body in his arms; and he saw nothing but the upturned
face, crushed close against his breast, and the wide-open eyes, and the lips to kiss. And even
Nada's face he seemed to see through a silvery mist, and he felt her arms strangely about his
neck, as if it was all half like a dream--a dream of the kind that had come to him beside his
campfire. It was a little cry from Nada that drove the unreality away.

This is an atom: 
"Roger--you're--breaking me," she cried, gasping for her breath in his arms, yet without giving
up the clasp of her own arms about his neck in the least; and at that he sensed the brutality
of his strength, and held her off a little, looking into her face.

This is an atom: 
Pride and happiness and the courage in his heart would have slunk away could he have seen himself
then, as Father John saw him, coming from the edge of the bush, and as Nada saw him, held there
at the end of his arms. Since the day he had come with Peter to Cragg's Ridge the blade of
a razor had not touched his face, and his beard was like a brush, and with it his hair unkempt
and straggling; and his eyes were red from sleeplessness and the haunting of that grim despair
which had dogged his footsteps.

This is an atom: 
But these things Nada did not see. Or, if she did, there must have been something beautiful
about them for her. For it was not a little girl, but a woman who was standing there before
Jolly Roger now--Nada grown older, very much older it seemed to McKay, and taller, with her
hair no longer rioting free about her, but gathered up in a wonderful way on the crown of her
head. This change McKay discovered as she stood there, and it swept upon him all in a moment,
and with it the prick of something swift and terrorizing inside him. She was not the little
girl of Cragg's Ridge. She was a WOMAN. In a year had come this miracle of change, and it frightened
him, for such a creature as this that stood before him now Jed Hawkins would never have dared
to curse or beat, and he--Roger McKay--was afraid to gather her back into his arms again.

This is an atom: 
And then, even as his fingers slowly drew themselves away from her shoulders, he saw that which
had not changed--the wonder-light in her eyes, the soul that lay as open to him now as on that
other day in Indian Tom's cabin, when Mrs. Captain Kidd had bustled and squeaked on the pantry
shelf, and Peter had watched them as he lay with his broken leg in the going down of the sun.
And as he hesitated it was Nada herself who came into his arms, and laid her head on his breast,
and trembled and laughed and cried there, while Father John came up and patted her shoulder,
and smiled happily at McKay, and then went on to the cabin in the clearing. For a time after
that Jolly Roger crushed his face in Nada's hair, and neither said a word, but there was a
strange throbbing of their hearts together, and after a little Nada reached up a hand to his
cheek, and stroked it tenderly, bristly beard and all.

This is an atom: 
"I'll never let you run away from me again--Mister--Jolly Roger," she said, and it was the
little Nada of Cragg's Ridge who whispered the words, half sobbing; but in the voice there
was also something very definite and very sure, and McKay felt the glorious thrill of it as
he raised his face from her hair, and saw once more the sun-filled world about him.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XVIII

This is an atom: 
Following this day Peter was observant of a strange excitement in the cabin on the Burntwood.
It was not so much a thing of physical happening, but more the mysterious FEEL of something
impending and very near. The day following their arrival in the Pashkokogon country his master
seemed to have forgotten him entirely. It was Nada who noticed him, but even she was different;
and Father John went about, overseeing two Indians whom he kept very busy, his pale, thin face
luminous with an anticipation which roused Peter's curiosity, and kept him watchful. He was
puzzled, too, by the odd actions of the humans about him. The second morning Nada remained
in her room, and Jolly Roger wandered off into the woods without his breakfast, and Father
John ate alone, smiling gently as he looked at the tightly closed door of Nada's bedroom. Even
Oosimisk, the Leaf Bud, the sleek-haired Indian woman who cared for the house, was nervously
expectant as she watched for Nada, and Mistoos, her husband, grunted and grimaced as he carried
in from the edge of the forest many loads of soft evergreens on his shoulders.

This is an atom: 
Into the forest Jolly Roger went alone, puffing furiously at his pipe. He was all a-tremble
and his blood seemed to quiver and dance as it ran through his veins. Since the first rose-flush
of dawn he had been awake, fighting against this upsetting of every nerve that was in him.

This is an atom: 
He felt pitiably weak and helpless. But it was the weakness and helplessness of a happiness
too vast for him to measure. It was Nada in her ragged shoes and dress, with the haunting torture
of Jed Hawkins' brutality in her eyes and face, that he had expected to find, if he found her
at all; someone to fight for, and kill for if necessary, someone his muscle and brawn would
always protect against evil. He had not dreamed that in these many months with Father John
she would change from "a little kid goin' on eighteen" into--A WOMAN.

This is an atom: 
He tried to recall just what he had said to her last night--that he was still an outlaw, and
would always be, no matter how well he lived from this day on; and that she, now that she had
Father John's protection, was very foolish to care for him, or keep her troth with him, and
would be happier if she could forget what had happened at Cragg's Ridge.

This is an atom: 
"You're a WOMAN now," he said. "A WOMAN--" he had emphasized that --"and you don't need me
any more."

This is an atom: 
And she had looked at him, without speaking, as if reading what was inside him; and then, with
a sudden little laugh, she swiftly pulled her hair down about her shoulders, and repeated the
very words she had said to him a long time ago--"Without you--I'd want to die--Mister--Jolly
Roger," and with that she turned and ran into the cabin, her hair flying riotously, and he
had not seen her again since that moment.

This is an atom: 
Since then his heart had behaved like a thing with the fever, and it was beating swiftly now
as he looked at his watch and noted the quick passing of time.

This is an atom: 
Back in the cabin Peter was sniffing at the crack under Nada's door, and listening to her movement.
For a long time he had heard her, but not once had she opened the door. And he wondered, after
that, why Oosimisk and her husband and Father John piled evergreens all about, until the cabin
looked like the little jackpine trysting-place down at Cragg's Ridge, even to the soft carpet
of grass on the floor, and flowers scattered all about.

This is an atom: 
Hopeless of understanding what it meant, he went outside, and waited in the warm May-day sun
until his master came back through the clearing. What happened after that puzzled him greatly.
When he followed Jolly Roger into the cabin Mistoos and the Leaf Bud were seated in chairs,
their hands folded, and Father John stood behind a small table on which lay an open book, and
he was looking at his watch when they came in. He nodded, and smiled, and very clearly Peter
saw his master gulp, as if swallowing something that was in his throat. And the ruddiness had
gone completely out of his smooth-shaven cheeks. It was the first time Peter had seen his master
so clearly afraid, and from his burrow in the evergreens he growled under his breath, eyeing
the open door with sudden thought of an enemy.

This is an atom: 
And then Father John was tapping at Nada's door.

This is an atom: 
He went back to the table and waited, and as the knob of the door turned very slowly Jolly
Roger swallowed again, and took a step toward it. It opened, and Nada stood there. And Jolly
Roger gave a little cry, so low that Peter could just hear it, as he held out his hands to her.

This is an atom: 
For Nada was no longer the Nada who had come to him in Father John's clearing. She was the
Nada of Cragg's Ridge, the Nada of that wild night of storm when he had fled into the north.
Her hair fell about her, as in the old days when Peter and she had played together among the
rocks and flowers, and her wedding dress was faded and torn, for it was the dress she had worn
that night of despair when she sent her message to Peter's master, and on her little feet were
shoes broken and disfigured by her flight in those last hours of her mighty effort to go with
the man she loved. In Father John's eyes, as she stood there, was a great astonishment; but
in Jolly Roger's there came such a joy that, in answer to it, Nada went straight into his arms
and held up her lips to be kissed.

This is an atom: 
Her cheeks were very pink when she stood beside McKay, with Father John before them, the open
book in his hands; and then, as her long lashes drooped over her eyes, and her breath came
a little more quickly, she saw Peter staring at her questioningly, and made a little motion
to him with her hand. He went to her, and her fingers touched his head as Father John began
speaking. Peter looked up, and listened, and was very quiet in these moments. Jolly Roger was
staring straight at the balsam-decked wall opposite him, but there was something mighty strong
and proud in the way he held his head, and the fear had gone completely out of his eyes. And
Nada stood very close to him, so that her brown head lightly touched his shoulder and he could
see the silken shimmer of loose tresses which with sweet intent she had let fall over his arm.
And her little fingers clung tightly to his thumb, as on that blessed night when they had walked
together across the plain below Cragg's Ridge, with the moon lighting their way.

This is an atom: 
Peter, in his dog way, fell a-wondering as he stood there, but kept his manners and remained
still. When it was all over he felt a desire to show his teeth and growl, for when Father John
had kissed Nada, and was shaking Jolly Roger's hand, he saw his mistress crying in that strange,
silent way he had so often seen her crying in his puppyhood days. Only now her blue eyes were
wide open as she looked at Jolly Roger, and her cheeks were flushed to the pink of wild rose
petals, and her lips were trembling a little, and there was a tiny something pulsing in her
soft white throat. And all at once there came a smile with the tears, and Jolly Roger--turning
from Father John to find her thus--gathered her close in his arms, and Peter wagged his tail
and went out into the sun-filled day, where he heard a red squirrel challenging him from a
stub in the edge of the clearing.

This is an atom: 
A little later he saw Nada and his master come out of the cabin, and walk hand in hand across
the open into the sweet-smelling timber where Father John had been chopping with his axe.

This is an atom: 
On a fresh-cut log Nada sat down, and McKay sat beside her, still holding her hand. Not once
had he spoken in crossing the open, and it seemed as though little devils were holding his
lips closed now.

This is an atom: 
With her eyes looking down at the greening earth under their feet, Nada said, very softly,

This is an atom: 
"Mister--Jolly Roger--are you glad?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes," he said.

This is an atom: 
"Glad that I am--your wife?"

This is an atom: 
The word drew a great, sobbing breath from him, and looking up suddenly she saw that he was
staring over the balsam-tops into the wonderful blue of the sky.

This is an atom: 
"Your WIFE," she whispered, touching his shoulder gently with her lips.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I'm glad," he said. "So glad that I'm--afraid."

This is an atom: 
"Then--if you are glad--please kiss me again."

This is an atom: 
He stood up, and drew her to him, and held her face between his hands as he kissed her red
lips; and after that he kissed her shining hair again and again, and when he let her go her
eyes were a glory of happiness.

This is an atom: 
"And you will never run away from me again?" she demanded, holding him at arm's length. "Never?"

This is an atom: 
"Never!"

This is an atom: 
"Then--I want nothing more in this life," she said, nestling against him again. "Only you,
for ever and ever."

This is an atom: 
Jolly Roger made no answer, but held her a long time in his arms, with the soft beating of
her heart against him, and listened to the twitter and song of nesting and mating things about
them. In this silence she lay content, until Peter--growing restless-- started quietly into
the golden depths of the forest.

This is an atom: 
Des Wehs! Medea. Call it the revenge, gods? Loving follows "I, the woman the man, my father
died, did (me) killed him? My brother fell, he fell through (me)? I've complained, complained
in agony.

This is an atom: 
Glowing tears poured from me To libation to their distant grave.

This is an atom: 
Where no level is no retaliation. Gora. As you have your leave to you! Medea. So I will make
myself like the gods!

This is an atom: 
Impunity is not a sin on earth, I let the revenge, gods!

This is an atom: 
I lead them out! Gora. Think of your salvation, not to andres!

This is an atom: 
Medea. And what have you done so soft? Snorted until Grimm, and now so zagend? Gora. Leave me!
When I saw the children fliehn The arm of the mother, the nurse, identified as' I am the hand
of the gods, As broke my heart, Because of my courage sank.

This is an atom: 
Have they maintained, cared for, my joy, my happiness.

This is an atom: 
The einz'gen pure Kolcher them, To whom I could turn my love for
the distant homeland.

This is an atom: 
You were alienated me long, long ago, I saw them in Colchis again, The thy father and thy brother,
my royal house, and (you) Like you (were) not like you (bist.)

This is an atom: 
Have they kept, maintained, how the apple of my eye And now - Medea. Worth it to you, such as
ingratitude worth! Gora. Schilt not the children, they are good! Medea. Good? And the mother
fled? Good? You are Jason's children! His equal in shape, to sense, like Him in my hatred.
Had I it here, their existence in my hand, In this my outstretched hand, and a printer managed
to destroy all what they are and were, what they will be - Look here! - Now if they were
no more! Gora .

This is an atom: 
Oh, woe to the mother, who hates the kids! Medea. And what's even more? What more? Stay here
with his father back, At the unfaithful, vicious father, what is her fate? Stepsisters come Höhne
they mock her and her mother, the savages from Colchis. However, be either used as slaves, or
of the Furor, gnawing at the heart, they battered power, itself an abomination, because when
the crime follows the disaster, more often follow the crime nor
the accident.

This is an atom: 
What's it to live? I want ', my father would have killed me, since I was still small, still
nothing, as now, be tolerated, not yet thought of - as now.

This is an atom: 
Gora. What schauderst you? überdenkst what you want? Medea.

This is an atom: 
That I must continue, but is certainly still minors, what else is
happening.

This is an atom: 
I thought of the injustice that I suffered, Des sacrilege, which is perpetrated on me, So entglüht
in revenge my heart And the horror is to me the next .-- The kids
love it, but he sees his I, his idol, his own Even Zurückgespiegelt
in their trains.

This is an atom: 
He should not have, do not! (I) but do not want it, the hated! Gora. Come with it, because what
you want here? Medea.

This is an atom: 
Then empty the whole house and extinct, brooding desolation in the desolate walls, nothing alive
in memory and pain. Gora.

This is an atom: 
Soon they close that we sell. Come! Medea. The Argonauts, you said you were all unfortunate
grave, the punishment of treason, the outrage? Gora. That's Jason and finds it well. Medea.
He's is, I tell you, he will go! The Hylas wrapped down the watery grave, The Theseus caught
the shadow düstrer King And how was it that Griechenweib, the owners own blood on blood
avenged? How was it? Sag. Gora. I do not know what you mean. Medea. Althea was called. Gora.
The son killed? Medea. The same, yes! How's came, tell me das Gora. The brother, he suggested
her dead Jagen Medea. The only brother, the father does not, you do not leave, not infringed,
not gehöhnt And yet, she met him for the death of her son Meleager
Grimmen. Althea was called - was a Griechenweib!

This is an atom: 
- And when he's dead? Gora. Here ends the story. Medea. It ends! You're right death ended.
Gora. What is the use of words? Medea. Doubt about the fact? Look! at the high gods! hätt
'er The children (both) given to me - No!

This is an atom: 
Can 'I (will), would be' it to me also, Can I love her like I hate them now, Wär 'something in the
wide world remained, That he does not poison me, not destroyed: Perhaps, now that I would my
revenge The gods of leaving, but could not, not now!

This is an atom: 
I have been malicious mentioned, I was not alone, I feel that it's can be. Appalling is in me, I
schaudre - but I am also sorrow. If it's now finished, done -
(frightened) Gora!

This is an atom: 
Gora.

This is an atom: 
What is it? Medea. Come here! Gora. Why? Medea.

This is an atom: 
To me Since they were both - and the bride - bleeding, dead - He also rauft his hair. Dreadful,
awful! Gora. For the gods sake! Medea. Ha, ha! Erschrickst probably do? Only words are loose, which
I admit, the old Would not the old strength. Yes, would I still
Medea, but I'm not anymore!

This is an atom: 
Jason O! Why tatest thou me?

This is an atom: 
I took you on, I protected, loved you, what I did, I gave it to you out runs reliably and
Why me? What do you me the good spirits and lead Rachgedanken in
my heart?

This is an atom: 
I Rachgedanken without force to revenge!

This is an atom: 
The power to me by my mother was, the grave Kolcherfürstin Hekate,
for me the dark gods services band, I Recessed it, you sake 'sunk,
In the dark womb of the mother earth.

This is an atom: 
The black bar, the blutigrote veil, you are then and I stand by
helplessly as the enemy rather than a terror, a mockery!

This is an atom: 
Gora.

This is an atom: 
Sun would not say if you can not! Medea. I know where it is located. Out there on the beach
of the ocean tide, where I hab's eingesargt and entrenched, double
handful of soil away - and it is mine!

This is an atom: 
Alone in the deepest interior schaudr 'I thought I would and the
blut'ge fleece.

This is an atom: 
Seems to me of his father and brother's spirit Drobe They breed and
do not let it go.

This is an atom: 
Knowest even as he lay on the ground, the aged father, weeping And if the son cursing his
daughter? Jason swung high but the fleece in terrible triumph. Because I swore revenge,
revenge, the traitor, the first of my killing myself now. Had I my blood device that I carry
'it alone, I do not wag it to fetch, because Seeding' I sign in the golden glow of his father
trains me stare From Sinnen would I, believe me!

This is an atom: 
Gora. So what are you doing? Medea. Let them come! Let them kill me, it's out! From here I do not
go, but I want to die, perhaps after he died from Reu 'strangles.

This is an atom: 
Gora. The king is approaching, but take care for you! Medea. Erarmt I am in power, what can I
do? Will it crush me? just do it! (The King's.) King. The evening dawns, your deadline is!
Medea. I know. King. Are you ready to go? Medea. You spot test! If (not) ready, must I go
less drum? King.

This is an atom: 
I am pleased that I find you so calmly.

This is an atom: 
You make you a less tart Erinnrung And until your children are very
good: you may mention what she gave birth.

This is an atom: 
Medea. You may? If they want, but do you mean? King. That they want it, be my concern. I
want to educate them künft'gen heroes, And once, who knows? Knight's journey leads her get
there after the mother of Colchis and press them, aged, as in years, so to sense, With love
to the child's chest child. Medea. Woe to me King. What is you? Medea. Ah, a relapse just
forget And of what happened. Was it to say your reason How come, or do you want from me andres
yet? King. Another thing I forgot and I say now.

This is an atom: 
From treasures took some things with your husband Jolkos from fleeing
after the uncle's death.

This is an atom: 
Medea.

This is an atom: 
In the house it's stores, go out and take it! King. Well, the golden gem also in the process
of the fleece, the price of Argonautenzugs? As you turn and go? Give Answer! Is it mean? Medea.
NO. King. Where is it then? Medea. I do not know. King. You took it from continuing but
Pelias' house, the Herald said so. Medea. Did he's said, it's also true. King. Where is it?
Medea. I do not know. King. Believe us not to cheat! Medea. If you give me's, my life, I paid drum;
Had 'I's, you would not be threatening me king. Du's made of Jolkos not you? Medea. I took's.
King. And now? Medea. Yeah, I could not anymore. King. Who else?
Medea. The Earth.

This is an atom: 
King. I understand you? So wär 'is that? (to his companions.) Bring
what I bade her.

This is an atom: 
You know it is! (You go from.) Do you think to fool us with a double meaning? The earth has
it, now I understand you. Do not look out! look after me, and listen! On the beach of the
sea, where her night tonight stored, as an altar on my behest the
shadow Pelias' edify wanted Did you - you blanch?

This is an atom: 
- Freshly buried in the ground - A crates, black, with strange
foreign character.

This is an atom: 
(The box is placed.) to see whether one's dir? Medea (drauf
losstürzend). Yes! I heard it!

This is an atom: 
- My! King. Is it the fabric? Medea. It is. King.

This is an atom: 
So let's! Medea. I'll give it! King. Almost Reut pity me, which I
gave thee, As thou deceitful deceive us wanted to.

This is an atom: 
Medea. Be sure you get what you deserve. Medea I am again, thank you god! King. Closing and
enter! Medea. Not now. King. When else? Medea. Gar soon, Too soon! King. To send it out to
Kreuser. Medea. Towards Kreuser! To Kreusa? - Yes! King. Does the box still andres? Medea.
Gar much! King. Your property? Medea. Schenk But I also like this!

This is an atom: 
King. Well I called your not what your reserves! Medea. Not yet! a small gift you permit me The
daughter was thy me so mild and hold, you will be the mother of my children, would like "I
win her love me! The Fleece attracts (you), perhaps like her jewelry. King. Do as you like,
just remember yourself Kreusa you hold is minded to believe. Only until she asked the children
to send to you, That you would see it before you go And lose farewell for the long ride. I
suggested it, because I thought you raging, but because you're quiet, it's granted you.
Medea. O Thanks a lot, you güt'ger, pious prince! King. Stay here, I send the kids out yourself!
(King.) Medea. He goes! He then goes to his doom! Wicked, bebtet ye not shuddering when she
took the last of the cheeky robbed?

This is an atom: 
But thank you! Thanks! Your gabt me myself Closing on the box! Gora. I can not. Medea. I
forgot it, so I locked it! The keys keep friends, I know.

This is an atom: 
(Opposite the box turned.) Inter Obres down Open up your mountaineering by Hüllendes grave!
(The box jumps up.) The lid jumps. Still, I am not powerless!

This is an atom: 
That is it! The Staff! The veil! My! Oh, my! (Taking it out.) I shall take you, the legacy of
my mother, and force through my heart and my arm, I throw you around the main, beloved veil! (Of
wrapping.) How warm, how soft! As new invigorating! Now, now comes
their enemies droves gen Incorporates all me!

This is an atom: 
Incorporates in your case! Gora. Since the bottom is still blinking! Medea. Let blink blink!
Expire soon shine in the blood!

This is an atom: 
Here they are, the gifts that I bring.

This is an atom: 
You, however, was the messenger of my bounty! Gora. I? Medea. You.

This is an atom: 
You go out to the king's daughter Say it with Holden Schmeichel words to Bring Mede greeting her
and what I send. (The stuff from the crate Taking.) First, this vessel, it poses even
expensive ointments, will shine the bride, she's opened! Solo was carefully, shaking 'is not! Gora.
Woe to me (you have the container with the Left taken wrong.

This is an atom: 
Because it is supportive of the right summarizes the lid, it will
be somewhat lifted and a bright flame is out.)

This is an atom: 
Medea.

This is an atom: 
Say 'I thee not, thou shalt not shake!

This is an atom: 
Kehr Züngelnde in your house do not stay there long snake Harre
pending.

This is an atom: 
Now stop it with caution, and I tell you! Gora. I ahnet horrible!
Medea.

This is an atom: 
To start to remember?

This is an atom: 
Egg what you're clever! Gora. And I wear the heck? Medea. Yes! Gehorche slave! Dare you to
talk to resist?

This is an atom: 
Hush! Thou shalt. You have to.

This is an atom: 
Here on the wide-arched shell of gold, I Setz dainty beauty of
container.

This is an atom: 
And I drüber deck, which attracts them so much, The Fleece - (By raises it above.) Go out and
do what your office! In this loop, but cloth, with a rich seam, a jacket, royal, encasing the
Mysterious Secret. Now go and do as I commanded thee, Bring the
gift, the enemy sends the enemies.

This is an atom: 
(A slave comes with the children.) Sklavin.

This is an atom: 
The children will send my royal lord, an hour after I get them back.

This is an atom: 
Medea.

This is an atom: 
You will return soon enough to the wedding feast!

This is an atom: 
Guide them here to your princess, the message with them, with gifts
from me.

This is an atom: 
You, however, I think what you ordered! Say not, I want to go!

This is an atom: 
- Escort them to the mistress. (Gora and from the slave.) Medea. It's begun, but not yet
completed. May be me, since I clearly what I want. (The children, hand in hand, want to follow
the slave.) Medea. Where? Boy. Into the house! Medea. What it looks inside the house? Boy. The
father said that we follow there. Medea.

This is an atom: 
The mother says, but you remain.

This is an atom: 
Stay! When I remembered that my own blood, the child which I can take lap, that I nourished in
this my breast, That it my self, which is gen am outraged, Sun
attracts the wrath me cutting through the Innre, And Blood trees
are thought up .-- What has your mother because you did, that she
flees her, turns out to strangers?

This is an atom: 
boy. You want to lead us back to where your ship's light is
disappearing and muggy.

This is an atom: 
We'll stay there. Gelt brother? Small. Yes. Medea. Also you Absyrtus you? But it is better,
better - all over! Come to me boy. I fear me. Medea. Come here boy. Are you doing me nothing?
Medea. Do?

This is an atom: 
did you's deserved? boy. Once threw me onto the ground, because the
father, I'm like, alone, he loves me drum.

This is an atom: 
I stay with him and the good woman! Medea. Thou shalt not take her to your good wife! - As he
looks similar to it, the traitor, as he speaks like him. Patience! Patience! Minor. Me schläfert.
Mature.

This is an atom: 
Let us go to sleep 's late. Medea. You will even sleep with you Do.

This is an atom: 
"Go there on the stairs, stores you, however I advise with myself --- As he carefully brother
hingeleitet, The upper dress is deducted and the kids warm encasing it to the shoulder sets,
And now, the small arms tightly devoured, Where lies down next to
him .-- Schlimm he never was!

This is an atom: 
--- O child! Kids! Boy (is guided upwards). If you want something? Medea. Sleep only! What would
be 'I can' I sleep like du (The boy sets down and sleeps.

This is an atom: 
Medea is quiet compared to a bank.

This is an atom: 
It has gradually become dark.) The night falls, which stars rise, with a mild, gentle light
herunterscheinend; same today, yesterday it was as if everything tonight, as it was yesterday;
Meanwhile in between so long as a gap between happiness and doom fixed: Sun wandellos to
Regardless of the nature of man So changeable and his skill. If I were the fairy tales of my
life tell me, seems to me a conversation else ', I listened to Him
less incisive: Friend, that can not be!

This is an atom: 
The same that you thought murder borrow If you walk in the land of the fathers, from that same note
lighted stars, So pure, so mild, so bare of all guilt as only a child at his mother's bosom? Where
does it go? It examines the poor hut, the father of their hunting and planting the seeds
tramples brings him gold and comforted the afflicted. What they studied forest paths? Egg she
hurries after the brother of her waiting in the forest, And now found, like two twin stars
shining Durchziehn it the usual train. An else is approaching, the brow crowned with gold,
it is her father is king of the country. He sets her hands on her and the brother blesses
And they called it his salvation and happiness.

This is an atom: 
Welcome Holde, friendly characters Addiction me home to my loneliness? Come closer to me, let's
see you in the face! You good brother, you smile at me? How beautiful art thou, thou soul
of my happiness. While your father is serious, but he loves me Loves his good daughter!
Good? Ah well! (Aufspringend.) 's is a lie! It will tell you old man! (Hat) betray thee, and
thee. But curse you test it. Thou shalt be expelled, as the beast of the wilderness, you
said, no friend to you, no place where you lay down your head. But he to whom you betray me,
because he will be my avenger, Will you leave violated kill you.
And look!

This is an atom: 
Your word is true: because I get expelled, shunned like the beast of the wilderness, leaving
him to whom I left you, Without Ruhstatt, sorry (not) dead, murder gloomy thoughts in mind.
Freust you revenge? Nahst me? - Kids! Children (Hineilend and vibrating.) Hears her children
does not? Stand up. Knabe (wake up). What do you want? Medea (hingeschmiegt to them). Winds
her arms around me! Boy. I slept so gently! Medea. How can you sleep? sleep? Believe it because
your mother watched with you? Worst enemies in their hands were never still! How can you sleep
here in my neighborhood? Is it because, in there like her ruhn! (The children go into the
porch.) So, they are gone! Now it is me again! - And as they continued what is probably a better
drum? Do I need to drum fliehn less, still fliehn?

This is an atom: 
You back here with my enemies leaving? Less drum Is her father a traitor? Does underage marriage
drum the new bride? Morning when the sun rises, I stand alone, The world an empty desert,
no children, no husband on bloody feet geritzten wandering into misery .-- Where? But look
here, and my laugh!

This is an atom: 
My children on the neck of the strangers I alienated, forever away. You tolerate this? Is it not
already too late? Too late to Verzeihn? Did they not know, Kreusa, the dress, And the cup, the
flaming cup? - Horch - Not yet - but soon will resound from Jammer's yelling in the royal castle.
They come, they kill me! Skåne and the Lesser not. Horch! Now called's - Light up jerks! It
is geschehn! No more withdrawal! Quite whether it finished! Fort! (Gora falls from the palace.)
Gora. O Greu'l! Horror! Medea (its opposite). Is it done? Gora. Alas! Kreusa dead! Flamboyant
palace. Medea. Are you asking white wedding? Lure me nor my children? Locks you? locks you? Will
you have them there? Not you, the gods send them! Gora. What hast thou done? It is coming!
Medea. Coming? Too late! (They hurry into the porch.) Gora. Woe
to me!

This is an atom: 
Even in my days of age, must I serve unconsciously as a black factory! Revenge told myself,
but such a vengeance! But where are the children? I left it here! Medea, where art thou? Your
children, where? (Urgent in the colonnade.)

This is an atom: 
(The Palace in the background starts from the inside of a rising flame to illuminate.) Jason's
voice. Kreusa! Kreusa! King (from inside).

This is an atom: 
My daughter! Gora (falls apart from the pillars going out and falls
in the middle of the theater on his knees to the face with his hands
veil).

This is an atom: 
What I've seen - the horror! (Medea enters from the portico to the left a dagger, with the
right hand hocherhobenen silence it.) (The curtain falls.) Fifth elevator (forecourt of Kreon
castle as in the previous elevators. The dwelling of the King in the background out and
still fuming. divers employed people filled the venue. dawn.) (The King drags Gora from the
palaces. Kreusas Several maids behind him.) King. Published with you! Du warst's that my
daughter brought the gift of blood, which they spoiled! O daughter! O Kreusa, you are my child!
"(Against the servants.) It was you? Gora. I was it. Did I unconsciously death in your house.
King. Unconsciously?

This is an atom: 
O do not think the punishment for escape! Gora. Do you think your punishment schrecket me?
I've seen this with my eyes, the children lie dead in their blood,
the strangles, they brought forth, from which I taught, Medea, since
everyone seems kidding me andre Greu'l!

This is an atom: 
King. Kreusa! Oh, my child! Reine Du!

This is an atom: 
Loyalty - the hand you shudders not monsters? As you hintrugst death in their vicinity. Gora.
To your daughter, I do not Klag. Your right it was! What took them to the final effects of the
accident? I lament on my children, my loved ones that I seen, dead hands of mother I want ', it
läget all in the grave with the traitors, who called Jason, but I
wär' in Colchis with the daughter and her children; hätt ' you never
seen, Never your city, the misfortune to meet law. king.

This is an atom: 
You lay Despite the well-off if I meet you! Solo, it's also certain that my child dead? So many
say's;'s has not seen! Can not escape the fire? Flame grows so fast? Only slowly, slowly
creeps Only attach them to the rafters continue. Who knows not? And yet wär 'she dead? Stand
only so prosperous, live in front of me there, and would be 'dead
now?

This is an atom: 
I can, I can not believe it! The eyes involuntarily out I wend And always I think, now and now
and now they must show their beauty in white Herniedergleitend by
black debris.

This is an atom: 
Who was there? Who saw it? - You - So Speak! Not turning their eyes to the head around! With
words kill me - is it there? Maid. Gone! King. You saw it? Maid. I saw's. Looked like the
flame, emphasize that wälzend from gold vessel, after it - is king.

This is an atom: 
Enough! - You saw it! - It is no more! Kreusa! O my child!

This is an atom: 
O my daughter! - Once - even as a child - they burned on the hand and painful Opferherd screamed
at them. Falls out, I hold it in my arm, the fingers with the hot lips hauchend. Since she
smiles, despite their bitter tears And quietly sobbing speaks: 's is not much What does the
pain? Only burn (burn) not! And now - (To Gora.) If I use the sword here twenty shock you into
your body - what's it? And when I do that awful! - Where is it that I stole from my child? I
shake you with the answer of the soul 'from your mouth if you do not confess to me: where
is it going? Gora. I do not know and might not even know it! Go unattended in their destruction.
What is visiting her?

This is an atom: 
Kill me! I may not live! King. This can be found, but rather admit you! Jason (behind the
scene). Where is she? Give them to me out! Medea (with the naked sword in his hand onset) They
tell me they grew up! Where is she? You here? And where is your mistress? Gora. Fort! Jason.
If they are the children?

This is an atom: 
Gora. No, Jason. How are they? - Gora. Dead! Yes dead! feigning you
traitor!

This is an atom: 
- Dead! She wanted it in front of your Anschaun save you And there nothing sacred to the earth
Does she hinabgeflüchtet them into the grave.

This is an atom: 
Just standing rigid and only the ground!

This is an atom: 
You can not call up the lovely couple. They are there and its freu ich mich! No its not! - But
that thou despair Drobe Des freu ich mich!

This is an atom: 
- Du feigning traitor, Hast thou not be brought? And you, you false king, with the Gleisnermiene?
- Do you have it not surrounded by hunters networks shameful betrayal of the noble game,
with no way out until, in Verzweiflungswut it, jumping on your yarn, the crown, head of high
royal decorations for the abused tool unusual murder. Wringing their hands only, whether
they are struggling yourself! (To King.) Your child, which seeks' to a different bed? (To Jason.)
Steel What you have, you have not loved? And loves you, what fails you? Let others, (me) let
you condemn their actions only two befell your right.

This is an atom: 
Your beggars no longer the Kolcherin .-- I do not like to live longer on Earth Two children
dead, the third hateful. Takes me just continue and do you want to kill me. At some (other
side) I will certainly hope, Have I seen it, that is retaliation. (She goes from some support.)
(Pause.) King. Indeed, I give her wrong - at the high gods I did not want it! - Now out of
those ruins, the remains that we are looking for my child And she burial in the earth lap.
(To Jason). But you go where your foot bear thee. Stained area, I remember, is dangerous. Had
I never seen you, you never made friends with loyalty to my warm house. You've made me the
daughter! That you do not go well the action I take solace! Jason.
You met me away? King.

This is an atom: 
I draw thee from me. Jason. What should I do? King. That will tell you a god! Jason. Who runs
my kick?

This is an atom: 
Who supports me? My main is sore, injured by fire in case!
"And five years will pass very quickly," he continued. "Possibly it will not be as bad as that,
and afterward all this land we love will be free to us forever. Gladly will I remain and take
my punishment if in the end it will make us happier, Nada"

This is an atom: 
"I have only one dream," she repeated, caressing his cheek with her hand, "and that is you,
Roger. Where-ever you take me I shall be the happiest woman in the world."

This is an atom: 
"WOMAN," he laughed, scarcely breathing the word aloud.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I am a woman--now"

This is an atom: 
"And yet forever and ever the little girl of Cragg's Ridge," he cried with sudden passion,
crushing her close to him. "I'd lose my life sooner than I would lose her, Nada--the little
girl with flying hair and strawberry stain on her nose, and who believed so faithfully in the
Man in the Moon. Always I shall worship her as the little goddess who came down to me from
somewhere in heaven!"

This is an atom: 
Yet all through that day, as they waited for Father John's return, he saw more and more of
the wonder of woman that had come to crown the glory of Nada's wifehood, and his heart trembled
with joy at the miracle of it. There was something vastly sweet in the change of her. She was
no longer the utterly dependent little thing, possibly caring for him because he was big and
strong and able to protect her; she was a woman, and loved him as a woman, and not because
of fear or helplessness. And then came the thrilling mystery of another thing. He found himself,
in turn, beginning to depend upon her, and in their planning her calm decision and quiet reasoning
strengthened him with new confidence and made his heart sing with gladness. With his eyes on
the smooth and velvety coils of hair which she had twisted woman-like on her head, he said,

This is an atom: 
"With your hair like that you are my Margaret of Anjou, and the other way--with it down you
are my little Nada of Cragg's Ridge. And I--I don't quite understand why God should be so good
to me."

This is an atom: 
And this day Peter was trying in his dumb way to analyze the change. The touch of Nada's hand
thrilled him, as it did a long time ago, and still he sensed the difference. Her voice was
even softer when she put her cheek down to his whiskered face and talked to him, but in it
he missed that which he could not quite bring back clearly through the lapse of time--the childish
comradeship of her. Yet he began to worship her anew, even more fiercely than he had loved
the Nada of old. He was content now to lie with his nose touching her foot or dress; but when
in the sunset of early evening she went into her room, and came out a little later with her
curling hair clouding her shoulders and breast, and tied with a faded ribbon she had brought
from Cragg's Ridge, he danced about her, yelping joyously, and she accepted the challenge in
a wild race with him to the edge of the clearing.

This is an atom: 
Panting and flushed she ran back to Jolly Roger, and rested in his arms.

This is an atom: 
And it was McKay, with his face half hidden in her riotous hair, who saw a figure come suddenly
out of the forest at the far end of the clearing. It was Father John. He saw him pause for
an instant, and then stagger toward them, swaying as if about to fall.

This is an atom: 
The sudden stopping of his breath--the tightening of his arms-- drew Nada's shining eyes to
his face, and then she, too, saw the little old Missioner as he swayed and staggered across
the clearing. With a cry she was out of McKay's arms and running toward him.

This is an atom: 
Father John was leaning heavily upon her when McKay came up. His face was tense and his breath
came in choking gasps. But he tried to smile as he clutched a hand at his breast.

This is an atom: 
"I have hurried," he said, making a great effort to speak calmly, "and I am--winded--"

This is an atom: 
He drew in a deep breath, and looked at Jolly Roger.

This is an atom: 
"Roger--I have hurried to tell you--Breault is coming. He cannot be far behind me. Possibly
half a mile, or a mile--"

This is an atom: 
In the thickening dusk he took Nada's white face between his hands.

This is an atom: 
"I find--at last--that I was mistaken, child," he said, very calmly now. "I believe it is not
God's will that you remain to be taken by Breault. You must go. There is no time to lose. If
Breault does not stumble off the trail in this gloom he will be here in a few minutes. Come."

This is an atom: 
Not a word did Nada say as they went to the cabin, and McKay saw her tense face as pale as
an ivory cameo in the twilight. But something in the up-tilt of her chin and the poise of her
head assured him she was prepared, and unafraid.

This is an atom: 
In the cabin the Leaf Bud met them, and to her Nada spoke quickly. There was understanding
between them, and Oosimisk dragged in a filled pack from the kitchen while Nada ran into her
room and came out with the bundle.

This is an atom: 
Suddenly she was standing before McKay and Father John, her breast throbbing with excitement.

This is an atom: 
"There is nothing more to make ready," she said. "Yellow Bird has been with me all this day,
and her spirit told me to prepare. We have everything we need."

This is an atom: 
And then she saw only Father John, and put her arms closely about his neck, and with wide,
tearless eyes looked into his face.

This is an atom: 
"Father, you will come to us?" she whispered. "You promise that?"

This is an atom: 
The Missioner's arms closed about her, and he bowed his face against her lips and cheek.

This is an atom: 
"I pray God that it may be so," he said.

This is an atom: 
Nada's arms tightened convulsively, and in that moment there came a warning growl from outside
the cabin door.

This is an atom: 
"Peter!" she cried.

This is an atom: 
In another moment Father John had extinguished the light.

This is an atom: 
"Go, my children," he commanded. "You must be quick. Twenty paces below the pool is a canoe.
I had one of my Indians leave it there yesterday, and it is ready. Roger--Nada--"

This is an atom: 
He groped out, and the hands of the three met in the darkness.

This is an atom: 
"God bless you--both! And go south--always south. Now go--go! I think I hear footsteps--"

This is an atom: 
He thrust them to the door, Nada with her bundle and Roger with his pack. Suddenly he felt
Peter at his side, and reaching down he fastened his fingers in the scruff of his neck, and
held him back.

This is an atom: 
"Good-bye," he whispered huskily. "Good-bye--Nada--Roger--"

This is an atom: 
A sob came back out of the gloom.

This is an atom: 
"Good-bye, father."

This is an atom: 
And then they listened, Peter and Father John, until the swift footsteps of the two they loved
passed beyond their hearing.

This is an atom: 
Peter whimpered, and struggled a little, but Father John held him as he closed the door.

This is an atom: 
"It's best for you to stay, Peter," he tried to explain. "It's best for you to stay--with me.
For I think they are going a far distance, and will come to a land where you would shrivel
up and die. Besides, you could not go in the canoe. So be good, and remain with me, Peter--with
me--"

This is an atom: 
And the Leaf Bud, standing wide-eyed and motionless, heard a strange little choking laugh come
from Father John as he groped in darkness for a light.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XXI

This is an atom: 
A slow illumination filled the cabin, first the yellow flare of a match and then the light
of a lamp, and as Father John's waxen face grew out of the darkness Peter whimpered and whined
and scratched with, his paws at the closed door.

This is an atom: 
Oosimisk, the Leaf Bud, stood like a statue, with her wide, dark eyes staring at Father John,
but scarcely seeming to breathe.

This is an atom: 
In the old Missioner's face came a trembling smile and a look of triumph as he read the fear-written
question in her steady gaze

This is an atom: 
"All is well, Oosimisk," he said quietly, speaking in Cree. "They are safely away, and will
not be caught. Continue with your duties and let no one see that anything unusual has happened.
Breault will come very soon."

This is an atom: 
He straightened his shoulders, as if to give himself confidence and strength, and then he called
Peter, and comforted the dog whose master and mistress were fleeing through the dark.

This is an atom: 
"They have reached the pool," he said, seating himself and holding Peter's shaggy head between
his hands. "They have just about reached the pool, and Breault must be entering the clearing
on the other side. Roger cannot miss the canoe--twenty paces down and with nothing to shadow
it overhead; I think he has found it by this time, and in another half minute they will be
off. And it is very black down the Burntwood, with deep timber close to the water, and for
many miles no man can follow by night along its shores. "Suddenly his hands tightened, and
the Leaf Bud, watching him slyly, saw the last of suspense go out of his face. "And now-- they
are safe," he cried exultantly. "They must be on their way-- and Breault has not come across
the clearing!"

This is an atom: 
He rose to his feet, and began pacing back and forth, while Peter sniffed yearningly at the
door again. Oosimisk, with the caution of her race in moments of danger, was drawing the curtains
at the windows, and Father John smiled his approbation. He did not want Breault, the man-hunter,
peering through one of the windows at him. Even as he walked back and forth he listened intently
for Breault's footsteps. Peter, with a sigh, gave up his scratching and settled himself on
his haunches close to Nada's door.

This is an atom: 
Father John, in passing him, paused to lay a hand on his head.

This is an atom: 
"Some day it may please God to let us go to them," he consoled, speaking for himself even more
than for Peter. "Some day, when they are far away--and safe."

This is an atom: 
He felt Peter suddenly stiffen under his hand, and from the Leaf Bud came a low, swift word
of warning.

This is an atom: 
She began singing softly, and dishes and pans already clean rattled under her hands in the
kitchen, and she continued to sing even as the cabin door opened and Breault the man-hunter
stood in it.

This is an atom: 
The unexpectedness of his appearance, without the sound of a warning footstep outside, was
amazing even to Peter. In the open door he stood for a moment, his thin, ferret-like face standing
out against the black background of the night, and his strange eyes, apparently half closed
yet bright as diamonds, sweeping the interior without effort but with the quickness of lightning.

This is an atom: 
There was something deadly and foreboding about him as he stood here, and Peter growled low
in his throat. Recognition flashed upon him in an instant. It was the man of the snow-dune,
away up on the Barren, the man whom he had mistrusted from the beginning, and from whom they
had fled into the face of the Big Storm months ago. His mind worked swiftly, even as swiftly
as Breault's in its way, and without any process of reasoning he sensed menace and enmity in
this man's appearance, and associated with it the mysterious flight of Jolly Roger and Nada.

This is an atom: 
Breault had nodded, without speaking. Then his eyes rested on Peter, and his face broke into
a twisted sort of smile. It was not altogether unpleasant, yet was there something about it
which made one shiver. It spoke the character of the man, pitiless, determined, omniscient
almost, as if the spirit of a grim and unrelenting fate walked with him.

This is an atom: 
Again he nodded, and held out a hand.

This is an atom: 
"Peter," he called. "Come here, Peter!"

This is an atom: 
Peter flattened his ears a fraction of an inch, but did not move. Even that fraction of an
inch caught Breault's keen eyes.

This is an atom: 
"Still a one-man dog," he observed, stepping well inside the cabin, and facing Father John.
"Where is McKay, Father?"

This is an atom: 
He had not closed the door, and Peter saw his chance. The Leaf Bud saw him pass like a shot
out into the night, but as he went she made no effort to call him back, for her ears were wide
open as Breault repeated his question,

This is an atom: 
"Where is McKay, Father?"

This is an atom: 
Peter heard the man-hunter's voice from the darkness outside. For barely an instant he paused,
picking up the fresh scent of Nada and Jolly Roger. It was easy to follow--straight to the
pool, and from the pool twenty paces down-stream, where a little finger of sand and pebbles
had been formed by the eddies. In this bar was fresh imprint of the canoe, and here the footprints
ended.

This is an atom: 
Peter whimpered, peering into the tunnel of darkness between forest trees, where the water
rippled and gurgled softly on its way into a deeper and more tangled wilderness. He waded belly-deep
into the current, half determined to swim; and then he waited, listening intently, but could
hear no sound of voice or paddle stroke.

This is an atom: 
Yet he knew Jolly Roger and Nada could not be far away.

This is an atom: 
He returned to the edge of the pool, and began sniffing his way down-stream, pausing every
two or three minutes to listen. Now and then he caught the presence of those he sought, in
the air, but those intervals in which he stopped to catch sound of voice or paddle lost him
time, so the canoe was traveling faster than Peter.

This is an atom: 
Half way between himself and the bow of that canoe McKay could dimly make out Nada's pale face
in the star glow that filtered like a mist through the tops of the close-hanging trees.

This is an atom: 
Scarcely above his breath he laughed in joyous confidence.

This is an atom: 
"At last my dream is coming true, Nada," he whispered. "You are mine. And we are going into
another world. And no one will ever find us there--no one but Father John, when we send him
word. You are not afraid?"

This is an atom: 
Her voice trembled a little in the gloom.

This is an atom: 
"No, I am not afraid. But it is dark--so dark--"

This is an atom: 
"The moon will be with us again in a few nights--your moon, with the Old Man smiling down on
us. I know how the Man in the Moon must feel when he's on the other side of the world, and
can't see you, Nada."

This is an atom: 
Her silence made him lean toward her, striving to get a better view of her face where the starlight
broke through an opening in the tree-tops.

This is an atom: 
And in that moment he heard a little breath that was almost a sob.

This is an atom: 
"It's Peter," she said, before he could speak. "Oh, Roger, why didn't we bring Peter?"

This is an atom: 
"Possibly--we should have," he replied, skipping a stroke with his paddle. "But I think we
have done the best thing for Peter. He is a wilderness dog, and has never known anything different.
Over there, where we are going--"

This is an atom: 
"I understand. And some day, Father John will bring him?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes. He has promised that. Peter will come to us when Father John comes."

This is an atom: 
She had turned, looking into the pit-gloom ahead of them, so dark that the canoe seemed about
to drive against a wall. Under its bow the water gurgled like oil.

This is an atom: 
"We are entering the big cedar swamp," he explained. "It is like Blind Man's Buff, isn't it?
Can you see?"

This is an atom: 
"Not beyond the bow of the canoe, Roger."

This is an atom: 
"Work back to me," he said, "very carefully."

This is an atom: 
She came, obediently.

This is an atom: 
"Now turn slowly, so that you face the bow, and lean back with your head against my knees."

This is an atom: 
This also, she did.

This is an atom: 
"This is much nicer," she whispered, nestling her head comfortably against him. "So much nicer."

This is an atom: 
By leaning over until his back nearly cracked he was able to find her lips in the darkness.

This is an atom: 
"I was thinking of the brush that overhangs the stream," he explained when he had straightened
himself. "Sitting up as you were it might have caused you hurt."

This is an atom: 
There was a little silence between them, in which his paddle caught again its slow and steady
rhythm. Then,

This is an atom: 
"Were you thinking only of the brush, Roger--and of the hurt it might cause me?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes, only of that," and he chuckled softly.

This is an atom: 
"Then I don't think it nice here at all," she complained. "I shall sit up straight so the brush
may put my eyes out!"

This is an atom: 
But her head pressed even closer against him, and careful not to interrupt his paddle-stroke
she touched his face for an instant with her hand.

This is an atom: 
"It's there," she purled, as if utterly comforted. "I wanted to be sure--it is so dark!"

This is an atom: 
With cimmerian blackness on all sides of them, and a chaotic tunnel ahead, they were happy.
Staring straight before him, though utterly unable to see, McKay sensed in every movement he
made and in every breath he drew the exquisite thrill of a miracle. And the same thrill swept
into him and through him from the softly breathing body of Nada. Light or darkness made no
difference now. Together, inseparable from this time forth, they had started on the one great
adventure of their lives, and for them fear had ceased to exist. The night sheltered them.
Its very blackness held in its embrace a warmth of welcome and of unending hope. Twice in the
next half hour he put his hand to Nada's face, and each time she pressed her lips against it,
sweet with that confidence which so completely possessed her soul.

This is an atom: 
Very slowly they moved through the swamp, for because of the gloom his paddle-strokes were
exceedingly short, and he was feeling his way. Frequently he ran into brush, or struck the
boggy shore, and occasionally Nada would hold lighted matches while he extricated the canoe
from tree-tops and driftwood that impeded the way. He loved the brief glimpses he caught of
her face in the match-glow, and twice he deliberately wasted the tiny flares that he might
hold the vision of her a little longer.

This is an atom: 
At last he began to feel the pulse of a current against his paddle, and soon after that the
star-mist began filtering through the thinning tree-tops again, so that he knew they were almost
through the swamp. Another half-hour and they were free of it, with a clear sky overhead and
the cheering song of running water on both sides of them.

This is an atom: 
Nada sat up, and it was now so light that he could see the soft shimmer of her hair in the
starlight. He also saw a pretty little grimace in her face, even as she smiled at him.

This is an atom: 
"I--I can't move," she exclaimed. "UGH! my feet are asleep--"

This is an atom: 
"We'll go ashore and stretch ourselves," said McKay, who had looked at his watch in the light
of the last match. "We've two hours the start of Breault, and there is no other canoe."

This is an atom: 
He began watching the shore closely, and it was not long before he made out the white smoothness
of a sandbar on their right. Here they landed and for half an hour rested their cramped limbs.

This is an atom: 
Then they went on, and in his heart McKay blessed the deep swamp that lay between them and Breault.

This is an atom: 
"I don't think he can make it without a canoe, even if he guesses we went this way," he explained
to Nada. "And that means--we are safe."

This is an atom: 
There was a cheery ring in his voice which would have changed to the deadness of cold iron
could he have looked back into that sluggish pit of the Burntwood through which they had come,
or could he have seen into the heart of the still blacker swamp.

This is an atom: 
For through the swamp, feeling his way in the black abysses and amid the monster-ghosts of
darkness, came Peter.

This is an atom: 
And down the Burntwood, between the boggy mucklips of the swamp, a man followed with slow but
deadly surety, guiding with a long pole two light cedar timbers which he had lashed together
with wire, and which bore him safely and in triumph where the canoe had gone before him.

This is an atom: 
This man was Breault, the man-hunter.

This is an atom: 
"The swamp will hold him!" McKay was saying again, exultantly. "Even if he guesses our way,
the swamp will hold him back, Nada."

This is an atom: 
"But he won't know the way we have come," cried Nada, the faith in her voice answering his
own. Meleager of rough violence, Des Caledonian Eberbezwingers, Kill
'Althea, the mother of the child.

This is an atom: 
Medea. She left the husband? Gora. He killed her brother. Medea. The husband? Gora. The son!
Medea. And when she's done, she died? Gora. She lives. Medea. And indeed it (live)! Dreadful! -
So much and I know this much is clear to me: I will not endure
injustice with impunity.

This is an atom: 
But (what) happens, I do not know will not know!

This is an atom: 
He deserves everything that deserves the worst, however - the man is weak; Cheap treat you
time to repent!Half a dozen times he caught the scent of him in a quiet air that seemed only now and then
to rise up in his face softly, as if stirred by butterflies' wings. Always it came from ahead,
and Peter's mind worked swiftly to the decision that where Breault was there also would be
Nada and Jolly Roger. Yet he caught the scent of neither of these two, and that puzzled him.

This is an atom: 
Many times he found himself at the edge of the black lip of water, but never quite at the right
time to see a shadow in its darkness, or hear the sound of Breault's pole.

This is an atom: 
But in the swamp, as he went on, he saw nothing but shadow, and heard weird and nameless sounds
which made his blood creep, even though his courage was now full-grown within him.

This is an atom: 
He was not frightened at the ugly sputter of the owls, as in the days of old. Their throaty
menace and snapping beaks did not stop him nor turn him aside. The slashing scrape of claws
in the bark of trees and the occasional crackling of brush were matters of intimate knowledge,
and he gave but little attention to them in his eagerness to reach those who had gone ahead
of him. What troubled him, and filled his eyes with sudden red glares, were the oily gurgles
of the pitfalls which tried to suck him down; the laughing madness of muck that held him as
if living things were in it, and which spluttered and coughed when he freed himself.

This is an atom: 
Half blinded at times, so that even the black shadows were blotted out, he went on. And at
last, coming again to the edge of the stream, he heard a new kind of sound--the slow, steady
dipping of Breault's pole.

This is an atom: 
He hurried on, finding harder ground under his feet, and came noiselessly abreast of the man
on his raft of cedar timbers. He could almost hear his breathing. And very faintly he could
see in the vast gloom a shadow--a shadow that moved slowly against the background of a still
deeper shadow beyond.

This is an atom: 
But there was no scent of Nada or Jolly Roger, and whatever desire had risen in him to make
himself known was smothered by caution and suspicion. After this he did not go ahead of Breault,
but kept behind him or abreast of him, within sound of the dipping pole. And every minute his
heart thumped expectantly, and he sniffed the new air for signs of those he most desired to find.

This is an atom: 
Dawn was breaking in the sky when they came out of the swamp, and the first flush of the sun
was lighting up the east when Breault headed his improvised craft for the sandbar upon which
Nada and McKay had rested many hours before.

This is an atom: 
Breault was tired, but his eyes lighted up when he saw the footprints in the sand, and he chuckled--almost
good humoredly. As a matter of fact he was in a good humor. But one would not have reckoned
it as such in Breault. A hard man, the forests called him; a man with the hunting instincts
of the fox and the wolf and the merciless persistency of the weazel--a man who lived his code
to the last letter of the law, without pity and without favoritism. ([Rosse occurs.]) MacDuff
Who comes there? MALCOLM A country man, whether I like him still do not know. (Rosse occurs.)
MacDuff My cousin highly beloved, be welcome! MALCOLM Now I know
him .-- O God, remove soon, "What makes us know each other.In the Service he was regarded as a humanly
perfect mechanism, a bit of machinery that never failed, the dreaded Nemesis to be set on the
trail of a wrong-doer when all others had failed.

This is an atom: 
But this morning, with every bone and muscle in him aching from his long night of tedious exertion,
the chuckle grew into a laugh as he looked upon the telltale signs in the sand.

This is an atom: 
He stretched himself and his tired bones cracked.

This is an atom: 
Breault did not think aloud. But he was saying to himself.

This is an atom: 
"There, against that rock, Jolly Roger McKay sat There is the imprint of only one person sitting.
The girl was in his arms. Here are little holes where her outstretched heels rested in the
sand. She is wearing shoes and not moccasins."

This is an atom: 
He grinned as he drew his service pack from the two-log cedar raft.

This is an atom: 
"Plenty of time now," he continued to think. "They are mine this time--sure. They believe they
have fooled me, and they haven't. That's fatal. Always."

This is an atom: 
Not infrequently, when entirely alone, Breault let a little part of himself loose, as if freeing
a prisoner from bondage for a short time. For instance, he whistled. It was not an unpleasant
whistle, but rather oddly reminiscent of tender things he remembered away back somewhere; and
as he fried his bacon and steamed a handful of desiccated potatoes he hummed a song, also rather
pleasant to ears that were as closely attentive as Peter's.

This is an atom: 
For Peter had crept up through a tangle of ground-scrub and lay not twenty paces away, smelling
of the bacon hungrily, and watching intently from his concealment.

This is an atom: 
Peter knew the fox and the wolf, but he did not know Breault, and he did not guess why the
man's whistling grew a little louder, nor why his humming voice grew stronger. But after a
time, with his back and not his face toward Peter, Breault called in the most natural and matter-of-fact
voice in the world,

This is an atom: 
"Come on, Peter. Breakfast is ready!"

This is an atom: 
Peter's jaws dropped in amazement. And as Breault turned toward him, his thin face a-grin,
and continued to invite him in a most companionable way, he forgot his concealment entirely
and stood up straight, ready either to fight or fly.

This is an atom: 
Breault tossed him a dripping slice of bacon which he held in his hand. It fell within a foot
of Peter's nose, and Peter was ravenously hungry. The delicious odor of it demoralized his
senses and his caution. For a few seconds he resisted, then thrust himself out toward it an
inch at a time, made a sudden grab, and swallowed it at one gulp

This is an atom: 
Breault laughed outright, and with the first of the sun striking into his face he did not look
like an enemy to Peter.

This is an atom: 
A second slice of bacon followed the first, and then a third-- until Breault was frying another
mess over the fire.

This is an atom: 
"That's partial payment for what you did up on the Barren," he was saying inside himself. "If
it hadn't been for you--"

This is an atom: 
He didn't even imagine the rest. Nor after that did he pay the slightest attention to Peter.
For Breault knew dogs possibly even better than he knew men, and not by the smallest sign did
he give Peter to understand that he was interested in him at all. He washed his dishes, whistling
and humming, reloaded his pack on the raft, and once more began poling his way downstream.

This is an atom: 
Peter, still in the edge of the scrub, was not only puzzled, but felt a further sense of abandonment.
After all, this man was not his enemy, and he was leaving him as his master and mistress had
left him. He whined. And Breault was not out of sight when he trotted down to the sandbar,
and quickly found the scent of Nada and McKay. Purposely Breault had left a lump of desiccated
potato as big as his fist, and this Peter ate as ravenously as he had eaten the bacon. Then,
just as Breault knew he would do, he began following the raft.

This is an atom: 
Breault did not hurry, and he did not rest. There was something almost mechanically certain
in his slow but steady progress, though he knew it was possible for the canoe to outdistance
him three to one. He was missing nothing along the shore. Three times during the forenoon he
saw where the canoe had landed, and he chuckled each time, thinking of the old story of the
tortoise and the hare. He stopped for not more than two or three minutes at each of these places,
and was then on his way again.

This is an atom: 
Peter was fascinated by the unexcited persistency of the man's movement. He followed it, watched
it, and became more and more interested in the unvarying monotony of it. There were the same
up-and-down strokes of the long pole, the slight swaying of the upstanding body, the same eddy
behind the cedar logs--and occasionally wisps of smoke floating behind when the pursuer smoked
his pipe. Not once did Peter see Breault turn his head to look behind him. Yet Breault was
seeing everything. Five times that morning he saw Peter, but not once did he make a sign or
call to him.

This is an atom: 
He drove his raft ashore at twelve o'clock to prepare his dinner, and after he had built a
fire, and his cooking things were scattered about, he straightened himself up and called in
that same matter-of-fact way, as if expecting an immediate response,

This is an atom: 
"Here, Peter!--Peter!--Come in, Boy!"

This is an atom: 
And Peter came. Fighting against the last instinct that held him back he first thrust his head
out from the brush and looked at Breault. Breault paid no attention to him for a few moments,
but sliced his bacon. When the perfume of the cooking meat reached Peter's nose he edged himself
a little nearer, and with a whimpering sigh flattened himself on his belly.

This is an atom: 
Breault heard the sigh, and grunted a reply,

This is an atom: 
"Hungry again, Peter?" he inquired casually.

This is an atom: 
He had saved for this moment a piece of cooked bacon held over from breakfast, and tearing
this with his fingers he tossed the strips to Peter. As he did this he was thinking to himself,

This is an atom: 
"Why am I doing this? I don't want the dog. He will be a nuisance. He will eat my grub. But
it's fair. I'm paying a debt. He helped to save me up on the Barren."

This is an atom: 
Thus did Breault, the man without mercy, the Nemesis, briefly analyze the matter. And he cooked
five pieces of bacon for Peter.

This is an atom: 
During the rest of that day Peter made no effort to keep himself in concealment as he followed
Breault and his raft. This afternoon Breault shot a fawn, and when he made camp that night
both he and Peter feasted on fresh meat. This broke down the last of Peter's suspicion, and
Breault laid a hand on his head. He did not particularly like the feel of the hand, but he
tolerated it, and Breault grunted aloud, with a note of commendation in his hard voice.

This is an atom: 
"A one-man dog--never anything else."

This is an atom: 
Half a dozen times during the day Peter had found the scent of Nada and Roger where they had
come ashore, and from this night on he associated Breault as a necessary agent in his search
for them. And with Breault he went, instinctively guessing the truth.

This is an atom: 
The next day they found where Nada and McKay had abandoned the canoe, and had struck south
through the wilderness. This pleased Breault, who was tired of his poling. This third night
there was a new moon, and something about it stirred in Peter an impulse to run ahead and overtake
those he was seeking. But a still strong instinct held him to Breault.

This is an atom: 
Tonight Breault slept like a dead man on his cedar boughs. He was up and had a fire built an
hour before dawn, and with the first gray streaking of day was on the trail again. He made
no further effort to follow signs of the pursued, for that was a hopeless task. But he knew
how McKay was heading, and he traveled swiftly, figuring to cover twice the distance that Nada
might travel in the same given time. It was three o'clock in the afternoon when he came to
a great ridge, and on its highest pinnacle he stopped.

This is an atom: 
Peter had grown restless again, and a little more suspicious of Breault. He was not afraid
of him, but all that day he had found no scent of Nada or Jolly Roger, and slowly the conviction
was impinging itself upon him that he should seek for himself in the wilderness.

This is an atom: 
Breault saw this restlessness, and understood it.

This is an atom: 
"I'll keep my eye on the dog," he thought. "He has a nose, and an uncanny sixth sense, and
I haven't either. He will bear watching. I believe McKay and the girl cannot be far away. Possibly
they have traveled more slowly than I thought, and haven't passed this ridge; or it may be
they are down there, in the plain. If so I should catch sign of smoke or fire--in time."

This is an atom: 
For an hour he kept watch over the plain through his binoculars, seeking for a wisp of smoke
that might rise at any time over the treetops. He did not lose sight of Peter, questing out
in widening circles below him. And then, quite unexpectedly, something happened. In the edge
of a tiny meadow an eighth of a mile away Peter was acting strangely. He was nosing the ground,
gulping the wind, twisting eagerly back and forth. Then he set out, steadily and with unmistakable
decision, south and west.

This is an atom: 
In a flash Breault was on his feet, had caught up his pack, and was running for the meadow.
And there he found something in the velvety softness of the earth which brought a grim smile
to his thin lips as he, too, set out south and west.

This is an atom: 
The scent he had found, hours old, drew Peter on until in the edge of the dusk of evening it
brought him to a foot-worn trail leading to the Hudson's Bay Company post many miles south.
In this path, beaten by the feet of generations of forest dwellers, the hard heels of McKay's
boots had made their imprint, and after this the scent was clearer under Peter's nose. But
with forest-bred caution he still traveled slowly, though his blood was burning like a pitch-fed
fire in his veins. Almost as swiftly followed Breault behind him.

This is an atom: 
Again came darkness, and then the moon, brighter than last night, lighting his way between
the two walls of the forest

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XXIII

This is an atom: 
Dawn came softly where the quiet waters of the Willow Bud ran under deep forests of evergreen
out into the gold and silver birch of the Nelson River flats. A veiling mist rose out of the
earth to meet the promise of day, gentle and sweet, like scented raiment, stirring sleepily
to the pulse of an awakening earth. Through it came the first low twitter of birdsong, a sound
that seemed to swell and grow until it filled the world. Yet was it still a sound of sleep,
of half wakefulness, and the mist was thinning away when, a ruffled little breast sent out
its full throat-song from the tip of a silver birch that overhung the stream.

This is an atom: 
The little warbler was looking down, as if wondering why there was no stir of life beneath
him, where in last night's sunset there had been much to wonder at and a new kind of song to
thrill him. But the girl was no longer there to sing back at him. The cedar and balsam shelter
dripped with morning dew, the place where fire had been was black and dead, and ruffling his
feathers the warbler continued his song in triumph.

This is an atom: 
Nada, hidden under her shelter, and still half dreaming, heard him. She lay with her head nestled
in the crook of Roger's arm, and the birdsong seemed to come to her from a great distance away.
She smiled, and her lips trembled, as if even in sleep she--was about to answer it. And then
the song drifted away until she could no longer hear it, and she sank back into an oblivion
of darkness in which she seemed lost for a long time, and out of which some invisible force
was struggling to drag her.

This is an atom: 
There came at last a sudden irresistible pull at her senses, and she opened her eyes, awake.
Her head was no longer in the crook of Jolly Roger's arm. She could see him sitting up straight,
and he was not looking at her. It must be late, she thought, for the light was strong in his
face, warm with the first golden flow of the sun. She smiled, and sat up, and shook her soft
curls with a happy little laugh.

This is an atom: 
"Roger--"

This is an atom: 
And then she, too, was staring, wide-eyed and speechless. For she saw Peter under Jolly Roger's
hand. But it was not Peter who drew her breath short and sent fear cutting like a sharp knife
through her heart.

This is an atom: 
Facing them, seated coldly on a log which McKay had dragged in from the timber, was a thin-faced
sharp-eyed man who was studying them with an odd smile on his lips, and instantly Nada knew
this man was Breault.

This is an atom: 
There was something peculiarly appalling about him as he sat there, in spite of the fact that
for a few moments he neither spoke nor moved. His eyes, Nada thought, were not like human eyes,
and his lips were like the blades of two knives set together. Yet he was smiling, or half smiling,
not in a comforting or humorous way, but with exultation and triumph. From looking at him one
would never have guessed that Breault loved his joke.

This is an atom: 
He nodded.

This is an atom: 
"Good morning, Jolly Roger McKay! And--good morning, Mrs. Jolly Roger McKay! Pardon me for
watching you like this, but duty is duty. I am Breault, of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police."

This is an atom: 
McKay wet his lips. Breault saw him, and the grin on his thin face widened.

This is an atom: 
"I know, it's hard," he said. "But you've got Peter to thank for it. Peter led me to you."

This is an atom: 
He stood up, and in a most casual fashion covered Jolly Roger with his automatic.

This is an atom: 
"Would you mind stepping out, McKay?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
In his other hand he dangled a pair of handcuffs. McKay stood up, and Nada rose beside him,
gripping his arms with both hands.

This is an atom: 
"No need of those things, Breault," he said. "I'll go peaceably."

This is an atom: 
"Still--it's safer," argued Breault, a wicked glitter in his eyes. "Hold out one hand, please--"

This is an atom: 
The manacle snapped over Jolly Roger's wrist.

This is an atom: 
"I'm Breault--not Terence Cassidy," he chuckled. "Never take a chance, you know. Never!"

This is an atom: 
Swift as a flash was his movement then, as the companion bracelet snapped over Nada's wrist.
He stepped back, facing them with a grin.

This is an atom: 
"Got you both now, haven't I?" he gloated. "Can't get away, can you?" He put his gun away,
and bowed low to Nada. "How do you like married life, Mrs. Jolly Roger?"

This is an atom: 
McKay's face was whiter than Nada's.

This is an atom: 
"You coward!" he spoke in a low, quiet voice. "You low-down miserable coward. You're a disgrace
to the Service. Do you mean you are going to keep my wife ironed like this?"

This is an atom: 
"Sure," said Breault. "I'm going to make you pay for some of the trouble I've had over you.
I believe in a man paying his debts, you know. And a woman, too. And probably you've lied to
her like the very devil."

This is an atom: 
"He hasn't!" protested Nada fiercely. "You're a--a--"

This is an atom: 
"Say it," nodded Breault good humoredly. "By all means say it, Mrs. Jolly Roger. If you can't
find words, let me help you," and while he waited he loaded his pipe and lighted it.

This is an atom: 
"You see I don't exactly live up to regulations when I'm with good friends like you," he apologized
cynically. "In other words you're a couple of hard cases. Cassidy has turned in all sorts of
evidence about you. He says that you, McKay, should be hung the moment we catch you. He warned
me not to take a chance--that you'd slit my throat in the dark without a prick of conscience.
And I'm a valuable man in the Service. It can't afford to lose me."

This is an atom: 
McKay shut his lips tightly, and did not answer.

This is an atom: 
"Now, while you're helpless, I want to tell you a few things," Breault went on. "And while
I'm talking I'll start the fire, so we can have breakfast. Peter and, I are hungry. A good
dog, McKay. He saved us up on the Barren. Have you told Mrs. Jolly Roger about that?"

This is an atom: 
He expected no answer, and whistled as he lighted a pile of birchbark which he had already
placed under dry cedar wood which McKay had gathered the preceding evening.

This is an atom: 
"That's where MY trouble began--up there on the Barren, Mrs. Jolly Roger," he continued, ignoring
McKay. "You see the three of us, Superintendent Tavish, and Porter--who is now his son-in-law--and
I had a splendid chance to die like martyrs, and go down forever in the history of the Service,
if it hadn't been for this fool of a husband of yours, and Peter. I can't blame Peter, because
he's only a dog. But McKay is responsible. He robbed us of a beautiful opportunity of dying
in an unusual way by hunting us up and dragging us into his shelter. A shabby trick, don't
you think? And inasmuch as Superintendent Tavish is about the biggest man in the Service, and
Porter is his son-in-law, and Miss Tavish was saved along with us--why, they reckoned something
ought to be done about it."

This is an atom: 
Breault did not look up. With, exasperating slowness he added fuel to the fire.

This is an atom: 
"And so--"

This is an atom: 
He rose and stood before them again.

This is an atom: 
"And so--they assigned me to the very unpleasant duty of running you down with a pardon, McKay--a
pardon forgiving you for all your sins, forever and ever, Amen. And here it is!"

This is an atom: 
He had drawn an official-looking envelope from inside his coat, and held it out now--not to
McKay--but to Nada.

This is an atom: 
Neither reached for it. Standing there with the cynical smile still on his lips, his strange
eyes gimleting them with a cold sort of laughter, it was as if Breault tortured them with a
last horrible joke. Then, suddenly, Nada seized the envelope and tore it open, while McKay
stared at Breault, believing, and yet not daring to speak.

This is an atom: 
King. Halt a o Herold, and still hear it! (Turned to Jason.) Do you believe me what I already
dispersed praised? Thought 'I owe thee, and thou wert my son, I would thee out those who seek
thee, But thou art not so, and I protect you, Stay here. But who dares to Kreon friend, for
his innocence, he pledged his word, - Who dares to touch my Eidam?

This is an atom: 
Herold Yes, my Eidam, husband of my daughter! What once was decided in the early days, his
days in happiness, I led it out now because of the tragedy it waves umbranden. She was your
wife, you stay with your father. So I represent's before the Amphiktyonen; And whoever accuses
Kreon nor whom spoke freely, free speech, by his own daughter hand? That'll tell you those
who try to hergesandt And in protection of the gods was now redundant. (Herald goes.) But this,
the wilderness ausgespieen, For thy, all pious downfall, you make
the Greu'l perpetrated, one of thee zeiht you bann me from the
country's borders and continuing her death, meets the morning they
are still here.

This is an atom: 
Pull out from the city of my fathers pious and clean the air that
you verpestest! Medea. So wär's?

This is an atom: 
I would 'to me? But I tell you, I've not done! King. Enough, you have committed, since he saw
you. Across from my house in my town. Medea (to Jason). And I must continue, probably now,
so follow me! Together as the debt was also the punishment! Knowest still the old saying? Solo
will not die, a house, a bodyguard and a ruin!

This is an atom: 
In the face of death we swore's; Now stop it, come! Jason. You touch me? Run away from me, thou
bane of my days! I stole from my life and my happiness, which I hated, as I have seen thee,
Only foolish love of my being called rings!
And breakfast waited, and Nada and
Jolly Roger and Peter waited, but Frangois Breault did not return. For a strange and unaccountable
man was he, a hard and pitiless man and a deadly hunter who knew no fear. Yet the wilderness
swallowed him, a coward at last--running away from the two red lips that had kissed him.

This is an atom: 
So went Breault, for the first time in his life a messenger of mercy; and at the top of the
silver birch the little warbler knew that something glad had happened, and offered up its gratitude
in a sudden burst of song.

This is an atom: 
THE END

***************************************************************************