Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document04935.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 22/22
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/22

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿"Bung yer eye! bung yer eye!"

This is an atom: 
Thorpe found himself at the edge of the woods facing a little glade into which streamed the
radiance of a full moon.

This is an atom: 
Chapter XXXVIII

This is an atom: 
There he stood and looked silently, not understanding, not caring to inquire. Across the way
a white-throat was singing, clear, beautiful, like the shadow of a dream. The girl stood listening.

This is an atom: 
Her small fair head was inclined ever so little sideways and her finger was on her lips as
though she wished to still the very hush of night, to which impression the inclination of her
supple body lent its grace. The moonlight shone full upon her countenance. A little white face
it was, with wide clear eyes and a sensitive, proud mouth that now half parted like a child's.
Here eyebrows arched from her straight nose in the peculiarly graceful curve that falls just
short of pride on the one side and of power on the other, to fill the eyes with a pathos of
trust and innocence. The man watching could catch the poise of her long white neck and the
molten moon-fire from her tumbled hair,--the color of corn-silk, but finer.

This is an atom: 
And yet these words meant nothing. A painter might have caught her charm, but he must needs
be a poet as well,--and a great poet, one capable of grandeurs and subtleties.

This is an atom: 
His machine was, however neither bird-like nor butterfly-like, nor had it the wide, lateral
expansion of the ordinary aeroplane. The effect upon the observer was rather something in the
nature of a bee or wasp. Parts of the apparatus were spinning very rapidly, and gave one a hazy
effect of transparent wings; but parts, including two peculiarly curved "wing-cases"--if one
may borrow a figure from the flying beetles--remained expanded stiffly. In the middle was
a long rounded body like the body of a moth, and on this Mr. Butteridge could be seen sitting
astride, much as a man bestrides a horse. The wasp-like resemblance was increased by the fact that
the apparatus flew with a deep booming hum, exactly the sound made by a wasp at a windowpane.
Behind her lurked the low, even shadow of the forest where the moon was not, a band of velvet
against which the girl and the light-touched twigs and bushes and grass blades were etched
like frost against a black window pane. There was something, too, of the frost-work's evanescent
spiritual quality in the scene,--as though at any moment, with a puff of the balmy summer wind,
the radiant glade, the hovering figure, the filagreed silver of the entire setting would melt
into the accustomed stern and menacing forest of the northland, with its wolves, and its wild
deer, and the voices of its sterner calling.

This is an atom: 
Thorpe held his breath and waited. Again the white-throat lifted his clear, spiritual note
across the brightness, slow, trembling with. The girl never moved. She stood in the moonlight
like a beautiful emblem of silence, half real, half fancy, part woman, wholly divine, listening
to the little bird's message.

This is an atom: 
For the third time the song shivered across the night, then Thorpe with a soft sob, dropped
his face in his hands and looked no more.

This is an atom: 
He did not feel the earth beneath his knees, nor the whip of the sumach across his face; he
did not see the moon shadows creep slowly along the fallen birch; nor did he notice that the
white-throat had hushed its song. His inmost spirit was shaken. Something had entered his soul
and filled it to the brim, so that he dared no longer stand in the face of radiance until he
had accounted with himself. Another drop would overflow the cup.

This is an atom: 
Ah, sweet God, the beauty of it, the beauty of it! That questing, childlike starry gaze, seeking
so purely to the stars themselves! That flower face, those drooping, half parted lips! That
inexpressible, unseizable something they had meant! Thorpe searched humbly--eagerly--then with
agony through his troubled spirit, and in its furthermost depths saw the mystery as beautifully
remote as ever. It approached and swept over him and left him gasping passion-racked. Ah, sweet
God, the beauty of it! the beauty of it! the vision! the dream!

This is an atom: 
He trembled and sobbed with his desire to seize it, with his impotence to express it, with
his failure even to appreciate it as his heart told him it should be appreciated.

This is an atom: 
He dared not look. At length he turned and stumbled back through the moonlit forest crying
on his old gods in vain.

This is an atom: 
At the banks of the river he came to a halt. There in the velvet pines the moonlight slept
calmly, and the shadows rested quietly under the breezeless sky. NAW!"
The soldier lit his match, and drew. "Secret society," he repeated, with his pipe between his teeth
and the match flaring, in response to his words. "War Departments; that's more like it." He threw
his match aside, and walked to his machine. "I tell you, sir," he said, "there isn't a big
Power in Europe, OR Asia, OR America, OR Africa, that hasn't got at least one or two flying machines
hidden up its sleeve at the present time.

This is an atom: 
Not one. Real, workable, flying machines.
And the spying!

This is an atom: 
The spying and manoeuvring to find out what
     the others have got. I tell you, sir,
   a foreigner, or, for the matter of that,
     an unaccredited native, can't get within four miles of Lydd
nowadays--not to mention our little circus at Aldershot, and the
experimental camp in Galway.

This is an atom: 
He was not a religious man,
and in his six years' woods experience had never been to church. Now he looked up over the
tops of the pines to where the Pleiades glittered faintly among the brighter stars.

This is an atom: 
"Thanks, God," said he briefly.

This is an atom: 
Chapter XXXIX

This is an atom: 
For several days this impression satisfied him completely. After a bit, you don't hear anything
more of 'em at all. See? They disappear. Gone--no address. First--oh! it's an old story
now--there was those Wright Brothers out in America. They glided--they glided miles and miles.
Finally they glided off stage.He did not attempt to analyze this; he did not even make an effort to contemplate it. His critical
faculty was stricken dumb and it asked no questions of him. At a touch his entire life had
changed. Reality or vision, he had caught a glimpse of something so entirely different from
anything his imagination or experience had ever suggested to him, that at first he could do
no more than permit passively its influences to adjust themselves to his being.

This is an atom: 
Curiosity, speculation, longing,--all the more active emotions remained in abeyance while outwardly,
for three days, Harry Thorpe occupied himself only with the needs of the Fighting Forty at
Camp One.

This is an atom: 
In the early morning he went out with the gang. While they chopped or heaved, he stood by serene.
Little questions of expediency he solved. Dilemmas he discussed leisurely with Tim Shearer.
Occasionally he lent a shoulder when the peaveys lacked of prying a stubborn log from its bed.
Not once did he glance at the nooning sun. His patience was quiet and sure. When evening came
he smoked placidly outside the office, listening to the conversation and laughter of the men,
caressing one of the beagles, while the rest slumbered about his feet, watching dreamily the
night shadows and the bats. They ain't dead that I've heard tell; but you can't say they're
alive. Not a feather of 'em can you see. Then that chap who flew round Paris and upset in the
Seine. De Booley, was it? I forget. That was a grand fly, in spite
of the accident; but where's he got to?It was the peace and stillness
of a river before it leaps.

***************************************************************************