Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document04821.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 518/518
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/518

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿ANABASIS

This is an atom: 
By Xenophon

This is an atom: 
Translation by H. G. Dakyns

This is an atom: 
Dedicated To
          Rev. B. Jowett, M.A.
          Master of Balliol College
          Regius Professor of Greek in the University of Oxford

This is an atom: 
Xenophon the Athenian was born 431 B.C. He was a
          pupil of Socrates. He marched with the Spartans,
          and was exiled from Athens. Sparta gave him land
          and property in Scillus, where he lived for many
          years before having to move once more, to settle
          in Corinth. He died in 354 B.C.

This is an atom: 
The Anabasis is his story of the march to Persia
          to aid Cyrus, who enlisted Greek help to try and
          take the throne from Artaxerxes, and the ensuing
          return of the Greeks, in which Xenophon played a
          leading role. This occurred between 401 B.C. and
          March 399 B.C.

This is an atom: 
PREPARER'S NOTE

This is an atom: 
This was typed from Dakyns' series, "The Works of Xenophon," a four-volume set. The complete
list of Xenophon's works (though there is doubt about some of these) is:

This is an atom: 
Work                                   Number of books

This is an atom: 
The Anabasis                                         7
     The Hellenica                                        7
     The Cyropaedia                                       8
     The Memorabilia                                      4
     The Symposium                                        1
     The Economist                                        1
     On Horsemanship                                      1
     The Sportsman                                        1
     The Cavalry General                                  1
     The Apology                                          1
     On Revenues                                          1
     The Hiero                                            1
     The Agesilaus                                        1
     The Polity of the Athenians and the Lacedaemonians   2

This is an atom: 
Text in brackets "{}" is my transliteration of Greek text into English using an Oxford English
Dictionary alphabet table. The diacritical marks have been lost.

This is an atom: 
ANABASIS

This is an atom: 
BY

This is an atom: 
XENOPHON

This is an atom: 
ANABASIS

This is an atom: 
BOOK I

This is an atom: 
I.

This is an atom: 
Darius and Parysatis had two sons: the elder was named Artaxerxes, and  1 the younger Cyrus.
Now, as Darius lay sick and felt that the end of life drew near, he wished both his sons to
be with him. The elder, as it chanced, was already there, but Cyrus he must needs send for
from the province over which he had made him satrap, having appointed him general moreover
of all the forces that muster in the plain of the Castolus. Thus Cyrus went up, taking with
him Tissaphernes as his friend, and accompanied also by a body of Hellenes, three hundred heavy
armed men, under the command of Xenias the Parrhasian (1).

This is an atom: 
(1) Parrhasia, a district and town in the south-west of Arcadia.

This is an atom: 
Now when Darius was dead, and Artaxerxes was established in the kingdom, Tissaphernes brought
slanderous accusations against Cyrus before his brother, the king, of harbouring designs against
him. And Artaxerxes, listening to the words of Tissaphernes, laid hands upon Cyrus, desiring
to put him to death; but his mother made intercession for him, and sent him back again in safety
to his province. He then, having so escaped through peril and dishonour, fell to considering,
not only how he might avoid ever again being in his brother's power, but how, if possible,
he might become king in his stead. Parysatis, his mother, was his first resource; for she had
more love for Cyrus than for Artaxerxes upon his throne. Moreover Cyrus's behaviour towards
all who came to him from the king's court was such that, when he sent them away again, they
were better friends to himself than to    5 the king his brother. Nor did he neglect the barbarians
in his own service; but trained them, at once to be capable as warriors and devoted adherents
of himself. Lastly, he began collecting his Hellenic armament, but with the utmost secrecy,
so that he might take the king as far as might be at unawares.

This is an atom: 
The manner in which he contrived the levying of the troops was as follows: First, he sent orders
to the commandants of garrisons in the cities (so held by him), bidding them to get together
as large a body of picked Peloponnesian troops as they severally were able, on the plea that
Tissaphernes was plotting against their cities; and truly these cities of Ionia had originally
belonged to Tissaphernes, being given to him by the king; but at this time, with the exception
of Miletus, they had all revolted to Cyrus. In Miletus, Tissaphernes, having become aware of
similar designs, had forestalled the conspirators by putting some to death and banishing the
remainder. Cyrus, on his side, welcomed these fugitives, and having collected an army, laid
siege to Miletus by sea and land, endeavouring to reinstate the exiles; and this gave him another
pretext for collecting an armament. At the same time he sent to the king, and claimed, as being
the king's brother, that these cities should be given to himself rather than that Tissaphernes
should continue to govern them; and in furtherance of this end, the queen, his mother, co-operated
with him, so that the king not only failed to see the design against himself, but concluded
that Cyrus was spending his money on armaments in order to make war on Tissaphernes. Nor did
it pain him greatly to see the two at war together, and the less so because Cyrus was careful
to remit the tribute due to the king from the cities which belonged to Tissaphernes.

This is an atom: 
A third army was being collected for him in the Chersonese, over against Abydos, the origin
of which was as follows: There was a Lacedaemonian exile, named Clearchus, with whom Cyrus
had become associated. Cyrus admired the man, and made him a present of ten thousand darics
(2). Clearchus took the gold, and with the money raised  9 an army, and using the Chersonese
as his base of operations, set to work to fight the Thracians north of the Hellespont, in the
interests of the Hellenes, and with such happy result that the Hellespontine cities, of their
own accord, were eager to contribute funds for the support of his troops. In this way, again,
an armament was being secretly maintained for Cyrus.

This is an atom: 
(2) A Persian gold coin = 125.55 grains of gold.

This is an atom: 
Then there was the Thessalian Aristippus, Cyrus's friend (3), who, under pressure of the rival
political party at home, had come to Cyrus and asked him for pay for two thousand mercenaries,
to be continued for three months, which would enable him, he said, to gain the upper hand of
his antagonists. Cyrus replied by presenting him with six months' pay for four thousand mercenaries--only
stipulating that Aristippus should not come to terms with his antagonists without final consultation
with himself. In this way he secured to himself the secret maintenance of a fourth armament.

This is an atom: 
(3) Lit. "guest-friend." Aristippus was, as we learn from the "Meno"
    of Plato, a native of Larisa, of the family of the Aleuadae, and a
    pupil of Gorgias. He was also a lover of Menon, whom he appears to
    have sent on this expedition instead of himself.

This is an atom: 
Further, he bade Proxenus, a Boeotian, who was another friend, get together as many men as
possible, and join him in an expedition which he meditated against the Pisidians (4), who were
causing annoyance to his territory. Similarly two other friends, Sophaenetus the Stymphalian
(5), and Socrates the Achaean, had orders to get together as many men as possible and come
to him, since he was on the point of opening a campaign, along with Milesian exiles, against
Tissaphernes. These orders were duly carried out by the officers in question.

This is an atom: 
(4) Lit. "into the country of the Pisidians."

This is an atom: 
(5) Of Stymphalus in Arcadia.

This is an atom: 
II

This is an atom: 
But when the right moment seemed to him to have come, at which he       1 should begin his
march into the interior, the pretext which he put forward was his desire to expel the Pisidians
utterly out of the country; and he began collecting both his Asiatic and his Hellenic armaments,
avowedly against that people. From Sardis in each direction his orders sped: to Clearchus,
to join him there with the whole of his army; to Aristippus, to come to terms with those at
home, and to despatch to him the troops in his employ; to Xenias the Arcadian, who was acting
as general-in-chief of the foreign troops in the cities, to present himself with all the men
available, excepting only those who were actually needed to garrison the citadels. He next
summoned the troops at present engaged in the siege of Miletus, and called upon the exiles
to follow him on his intended expedition, promising them that if he were successful in his
object, he would not pause until he had reinstated them in their native city. To this invitation
they hearkened gladly; they believed in him; and with their arms they presented themselves
at Sardis. So, too, Xenias arrived at Sardis with the contingent from the cities, four thousand
hoplites; Proxenus, also, with fifteen hundred hoplites and five hundred light-armed troops;
Sophaenetus the Stymphalian, with one thousand hoplites; Socrates the Achaean, with five hundred
hoplites; while the Megarion Pasion came with three hundred hoplites and three hundred peltasts
(1). This latter officer, as well as Socrates, belonged to the force engaged against Miletus.
These all joined him at Sardis.

This is an atom: 
(1) "Targeteers" armed with a light shield instead of the larger one
    of the hoplite, or heavy infantry soldier. Iphicrates made great
    use of this arm at a later date.

This is an atom: 
But Tissaphernes did not fail to note these proceedings. An equipment so large pointed to something
more than an invasion of Pisidia: so he argued; and with what speed he might, he set off to
the king, attended by about five hundred horse. The king, on his side, had no sooner heard
from Tissaphernes of Cyrus's great armament, than he began to make counter-preparations.

This is an atom: 
Thus Cyrus, with the troops which I have named, set out from Sardis, and marched on and on
through Lydia three stages, making two-and-twenty parasangs (2), to the river Maeander. That
river is two hundred feet (3) broad, and was spanned by a bridge consisting of seven boats.
Crossing it, he marched through Phrygia a single stage, of eight parasangs, to Colossae, an
inhabited city (4), prosperous and      6 large. Here he remained seven days, and was joined
by Menon the Thessalian, who arrived with one thousand hoplites and five hundred peltasts,
Dolopes, Aenianes, and Olynthians. From this place he marched three stages, twenty parasangs
in all, to Celaenae, a populous city of Phrygia, large and prosperous. Here Cyrus owned a palace
and a large park (5) full of wild beasts, which he used to hunt on horseback, whenever he wished
to give himself or his horses exercise. Through the midst of the park flows the river Maeander,
the sources of which are within the palace buildings, and it flows through the city of Celaenae.
The great king also has a palace in Celaenae, a strong place, on the sources of another river,
the Marsyas, at the foot of the acropolis. This river also flows through the city, discharging
itself into the Maeander, and is five-and-twenty feet broad. Here is the place where Apollo
is said to have flayed Marsyas, when he had conquered him in the contest of skill. He hung
up the skin of the conquered man, in the cavern where the spring wells forth, and hence the
name of the river, Marsyas. It was on this site that Xerxes, as tradition tells, built this
very palace, as well as the citadel of Celaenae itself, on his retreat from Hellas, after he
had lost the famous battle. Here Cyrus remained for thirty days, during which Clearchus the
Lacedaemonian arrived with one thousand hoplites and eight hundred Thracian peltasts and two
hundred Cretan archers. At the same time, also, came Sosis the Syracusian with three thousand
hoplites, and Sophaenetus the Arcadian (6) with one thousand hoplites; and here Cyrus held
a review, and numbered his Hellenes in the park, and found that they amounted in all to eleven
thousand hoplites and about two thousand peltasts.

This is an atom: 
(2) The Persian "farsang" = 30 stades, nearly 1 league, 3 1/2 statute
    miles, though not of uniform value in all parts of Asia.

This is an atom: 
(3) "Two plethra": the plethron = about 101 English feet.

This is an atom: 
(4) Lit. "inhabited," many of the cities of Asia being then as now
    deserted, but the suggestion is clearly at times "thickly
    inhabited," "populous."

This is an atom: 
(5) Lit. "paradise," an oriental word = park or pleasure ground.

This is an atom: 
(6) Perhaps this should be Agias the Arcadian, as Mr. Macmichael
    suggests. Sophaenetus has already been named above.

This is an atom: 
From this place he continued his march two stages--ten parasangs--to    10 the populous city
of Peltae, where he remained three days; while Xenias, the Arcadian, celebrated the Lycaea
(7) with sacrifice, and instituted games. The prizes were headbands of gold; and Cyrus himself
was a spectator of the contest. From this place the march was continued two stages--twelve
parasangs--to Ceramon-agora, a populous city, the last on the confines of Mysia. Thence a march
of three stages--thirty parasangs--brought him to Caystru-pedion (8), a populous city. Here
Cyrus halted five days; and the soldiers, whose pay was now more than three months in arrear,
came several times to the palace gates demanding their dues; while Cyrus put them off with
fine words and expectations, but could not conceal his vexation, for it was not his fashion
to stint payment, when he had the means. At this point Epyaxa, the wife of Syennesis, the king
of the Cilicians, arrived on a visit to Cyrus; and it was said that Cyrus received a large
gift of money from the queen. At this date, at any rate, Cyrus gave the army four months' pay.
The queen was accompanied by a bodyguard of Cilicians and Aspendians; and, if report speaks
truly, Cyrus had intimate relations with the queen.

This is an atom: 
(7) The Lycaea, an Arcadian festival in honour of Zeus {Arcaios}, akin
    to the Roman Lupercalia, which was originally a shepherd festival,
    the introduction of which the Romans ascribe to the Arcadian
    Evander.

This is an atom: 
(8) Lit. "plain of the Cayster," like Ceramon-agora, "the market of
    the Ceramians" above, the name of a town.

This is an atom: 
From this place he marched two stages--ten parasangs--to Thymbrium, a populous city. Here,
by the side of the road, is the spring of Midas, the king of Phrygia, as it is called, where
Midas, as the story goes, caught the satyr by drugging the spring with wine. From this place
he marched two stages--ten parasangs--to Tyriaeum, a populous city. Here he halted three days;
and the Cilician queen, according to the popular account, begged Cyrus to exhibit his armament
for her amusement. The latter being only too glad to make such an exhibition, held a review
of the Hellenes and barbarians in the plain. He ordered the Hellenes to draw up their lines
and post themselves in their customary battle order, each general marshalling his own battalion.
Accordingly they drew up four-deep. The right was held by Menon and those with him; the  15
left by Clearchus and his men; the centre by the remaining generals with theirs. Cyrus first
inspected the barbarians, who marched past in troops of horses and companies of infantry. He
then inspected the Hellenes; driving past them in his chariot, with the queen in her carriage.
'More like a blasted Dreadnought,' grunted another. 'Cheer-o, chaps,
the 'Un fleet 'as come out.'

This is an atom: 
But nobody laughed or felt like laughing; this mysterious monster,
thundering westward wrapped in its barrage of fog, was getting on
our nerves."

This is an atom: 
The Horse-master paused and carefully removed the long ash from his cigar.

This is an atom: 
"Then the mists rolled up and revealed what I at first took to be a walking R.E. dump, but
secondly discovered to be a common ordinary domestic British steam-roller with 'LINCOLN URBAN
DISTRICT COUNCIL' in dirty white lettering upon its fuel box, a mountain of duck-boards stacked
on the cab roof, railway sleepers, riveting stakes and odds and ends of lumber tied on all over
it. As I rode up an elderly head, grimy and perspiring, was thrust between a couple of
duck-boards and nodded pleasantly to me. ''Ello,' it said, 'seen anythin' o' the lads?'
"I was too dumbfounded to say anything excepting that the lads were in the next village waiting
for him.

This is an atom: 
"'Ah'm right glad o' that,' said he; 'been feeling a bit lonesome-like these last two days;'
adding, in case I might not appreciate the situation, 'These yer Germans 'ave been after me,
you know, Sir.'
"I replied that my only wonder was that they had not captured him long since.

This is an atom: 
"'Very nearly did once or twice,' he admitted, and wagged his elderly head; 'but t'owd lass is
a great one to travel when she's sweet, an' ah've 'ad a lot o' luck pickin' oop these bits o'
firin' along the road;' and he jammed a bunch of riveting stakes
into the furnace.

This is an atom: 
"'Oh, ah reckon we're just keepin' ahead of 'em. Well, best be gettin' along now, s'pose.
Good day to you, Sir.'
"He wrenched at a lever and 't'owd lass' rumbled off down the highway towards Albert, rearguard
of His Britannic Majesty's Armies in the Field."
PATLANDER.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
[Illustration: STRIKE NERVES.

This is an atom: 
SHOCKING EXPERIENCE IN OXFORD STREET OF JAMES SIMPKINS, ESQ., A LARGE EMPLOYER OF LABOUR.]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _He (new to the Jazz and eager to learn)._ "WHICH STEP IS THIS?"]
* * * * *
MISTRESS AND MAID.

This is an atom: 
_(New Style)._
My wife burst into the room, her face aglow with the joy of success.

This is an atom: 
"Oh, George, isn't it simply splendid?"
"Absolutely top-hole, I am sure, my dear; but supposing you let me know what it's all about?"

This is an atom: 
"How silly I am," she murmured as she sank into a chair. "I quite forgot I had not seen you
all day, and it happened just after you left for the office. You had not been gone five minutes
when Jane came up and gave notice. I determined to be firm and told her she could go when she
liked, and then I marched straight off to Mrs. Smith's Registry Office. I found the dear
old thing just as amiable and ready to please as ever, but she told me I must not mind if the
methods of her establishment were a bit changed. In the old days, you know, we used to sit
in a small room and interview the servants she wanted places for. But now the position is
reversed, and the servants interview you and ask you questions. I was told to go in and see
a nice-looking girl. She was not a bit shy and, after asking me to take a chair, began to
put questions--our income? your profession? what other servants we kept? wages? margarine or
butter in the kitchen?
etc.

This is an atom: 
"She seemed quite satisfied with everything until we came to the matter of her afternoons out.

This is an atom: 
I said that two a week and every other Sunday was my usual custom, and that I hoped this would
prove agreeable. She snapped me up at once and said she must have at least four, as well as
the whole of every other Sunday.

This is an atom: 
"My heart sank, because I did not see how we could possibly give her all that, so I just said
how sorry I was and got up to go--in fact I was half-way to the door--when she called me
back and said, 'I like your face, and perhaps for the present two afternoons and the Sunday will
be enough. If you will wait a minute I will have another talk to Mrs. Smith about you,' and
off she went.

This is an atom: 
"It seemed ages before anyone came, and then old Mrs. Smith walked in, saying, 'I'm glad to
tell you, Madam, that you have been approved of.'
"Isn't it too glorious, George? You and I have been approved of. We have got a situation."

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
"OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN--"
When, moved a few brief seasons back, To brave the battle's brunt, On Britain's shores I turned
my pack And "somewhere" found a Front;
Said I; as in my tympanum I heard the cannon's roar, "'Twill be a wonder if I come Impervious
through the War."
Yet bomb, shell, bullet and grenade Made no great hit with me; And now I'm--well, I've just
been paid My war gratuity.

This is an atom: 
But at the sight of civil life, If "life" it can be called, With
all its agonising strife, I simply stand appalled.

This is an atom: 
And "Oh!"

This is an atom: 
in utter fear I cry, "How horrors never cease; 'Twill be a miracle if I Ever survive the
Peace."
* * * * *
[Illustration: THE PERIL WITHOUT.]
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

This is an atom: 
_Monday, March 24th_.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY sought from the Government a clear statement
of policy regarding the repatriation of enemy aliens, and incidentally paid a high tribute to
the British Press, which, we were glad to hear, contains "nobody who desires to fabricate
baseless statements."
He was supported by Lord LAMBOURNE, who as a member of the Advisory Committee knows all about
aliens, and declared that "Repatriate them all" was a foolish cry, if it meant that we were
expected to present Germany with the British wives and children of the dear deported.

This is an atom: 
Lord JERSEY, for the Government, desired to treat even Germans justly, but could not see why
anyone should wish in these times to increase our alien population. His speech did not please a
batch of noble sentimentalists, drawn from both sides, but seemed to give great satisfaction
to Lord LINCOLNSHIRE, who quoted with approval the brave words on the subject uttered by the
LORD CHANCELLOR at the General Election, before his style had been mollified by the Woolsack.

This is an atom: 
In the Commons Mr. BONAR LAW regretfully explained that it was impossible for the Government to
do anything to reduce the high prices now being charged for furniture in the East End. His own
experience as a Cabinet-maker has been entirely confined to the West End.

This is an atom: 
Nor could the Government take any direct steps to ameliorate the
overcrowding on the Underground railways.

This is an atom: 
But, as it was stated that large quantities of leather are still being purchased on Government
account, there are hopes that more accommodation for strap-hangers may shortly be
available.

This is an atom: 
_Tuesday, March 25th_.--The Lords spent three hours of almost unrelieved gloom in discussing the
financial condition of the country. On that old problem of the economists, "What is a pound?"
Lord D'ABERNON delivered an erudite discourse, from which I gathered that it was at present
about ten shillings and still shrinking. The only comfort is that at that rate the National
Debt has already been halved.

This is an atom: 
Lord MILNER made a fairly cheerful speech in the circumstances; but I hope that potential strikers
will not take too literally his observation that the one thing most needed at the present
moment was "economy of national energy."
Mr. CHURCHILL came down heavily upon Sir DONALD MACLEAN'S attempt to delay the adoption of
compulsion in the new Military Service Bill. When rather more than half of Europe was
seething with unrest, which might require military intervention,
it would be fatal to let our army disappear; yet the right hon.
gentleman seemed to think that everyone ought to be disarmed except
LENIN and TROTSKY.

This is an atom: 
For the first time since 1914 private Members had an evening to themselves. They utilised it
in endeavouring to obtain from the Government a direct statement of its future fiscal policy.
On Imperial Preference Mr. BONAR LAW was quite explicit; the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER was
already considering how to incorporate it in the next Budget. As to the Government's fiscal
policy generally it had already been outlined in the PRIME MINISTER'S letter to himself, and
would be definitely declared as soon as the time was ripe--a cautious statement which, as
was perhaps intended, left Free Traders and Protectionists still guessing.

This is an atom: 
[Illustration: THE BONAR LAW ORACLE WILL SPEAK ON FISCAL POLICY "AS SOON AS THE TIME IS RIPE."]

This is an atom: 
_Wednesday, March 26th_.--After Lord DESBOROUGH'S vivacious attack upon the Cippenham Motor
Depot, it is doubtful whether anyone could have enabled the Government to wriggle out of the
demand for an independent inquiry. At any rate Lord INVERFORTH was insufficiently agile.
The innumerable type-written sheets which he read out laboriously may have contained a complete
reply to Lord DESBOROUGH'S main allegations, even if they included no refutation of the stones of the
bricks imported by the hundred thousand into a district containing some of the best brick-earth
in the country, or of the four pounds a week paid for the services of a railway pensioner
aged ninety-two. But as hardly anyone could hear the recital it created little impression.

This is an atom: 
The Ministry are evidently unwilling to stake their political lives
on Mr.

This is an atom: 
CHURCHILL'S approval of the project, for Mr. BONAR LAW announced that the Government Whips
would not be put on for the forthcoming division on the subject.

This is an atom: 
Mr. G. ROBERTS furnished an interesting analysis of the nine shillings now charged for a bottle
of whisky. Three-and-sixpence represents the cost of the spirit plus pre-war taxation. The
other five-and-sixpence is made up of interest to manufacturers, insurance and rent; increased
price of bottles and corks; margins of profit to blenders and bottlers, merchants and other
traders; and increase of taxation. By some oversight nothing appears to have been charged
for the extra water, but no doubt this will be remedied in the next Budget.

This is an atom: 
_Thursday, March 27th.

This is an atom: 
_--To those who remember the debates on the Parliament Act, _circa_
1911, it was amusing to hear Lords CREWE and BUCKMASTER complaining
of the unceremonious manner in which the Lords' amendments to the
Rents Bill had been treated in "another place;" and being entreated
not to pick a quarrel with the Commons by those ancient champions
of the Upper Chamber, Lord CURZON and the LORD CHANCELLOR.

This is an atom: 
The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER announced the names of the Royal Commissioners who are to
consider how the income-tax can be improved. Several Members complained that there is only one
woman among them, and that, pending their report (expected some time next year), the glaring
anomaly by which husband and wife are regarded for taxable purposes as a single entity is
apparently to be continued. The idea of presenting Mr. CHAMBERLAIN with a box for _The Purse
Strings,_ in the hope that it would convert him, has unfortunately been frustrated by the
withdrawal of the play.

This is an atom: 
Mr. BONAR LAW'S determination to leave the Cippenham question to the free judgment of the House led (as
possibly he anticipated) to its expressing no judgment at all. Sir DONALD MACLEAN and others
served up a rather insipid _réchauffé_ of Lord DESBOROUGH'S indictment, and Mr. CHURCHILL
repeated Lord INVERFORTH'S defence, but put a little more ginger into it. Incidentally he
mentioned that a prolonged search for the nonagenarian pensioner had produced nobody more
venerable than a comparative youngster of sixty-five.

This is an atom: 
Deprived of this prop the Opposition felt unequal to walking through the Lobbies.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
THE FAIRIES' FLITTING.

This is an atom: 
There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot, Down the garden, near the great big
sumach-tree, Where the grass has grown across the path and dead leaves lie and rot And no
one hardly ever goes but me; Yes, it's just the place for fairies, and they told the pigeons so;
They begged to be allowed to move in soon; It's a most tremendous honour, as of course the
pigeons know; It was all arranged this very afternoon.

This is an atom: 
There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot-- Oh, the bustle and the sweeping there
has been!
For the pigeons didn't scrub their house (I think they all forgot),
And the fairies like their home so _scrup_'lous clean; There are
fairy dusters hanging from the sumach as you pass; Tiny drops are
dripping still from overhead; Broken fairy-brooms are lying near
the fir-tree on the grass, Though the fairies went an hour ago to
bed.

This is an atom: 
There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot, And there's cooings round about our chimney-stack,
For the pigeons are all sitting there and talking such a lot And there's nothing Gard'ner
does will drive them back; "Why, they'll choke up those roof-gutters if they start this nesting
fuss; They've _got_ a house," he says, "so I don't see--" No, _he_ doesn't know the secret,
and there's no one does but--_us_, All the pigeons, and the fairy-folk and ME!

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
[Illustration: ENFIN SEULS!]
* * * * *

This is an atom: 
WHAT EVERY MINISTER SHOULD KNOW.

This is an atom: 
_The Times_ is much concerned with the chaotic condition of the Air Ministry and the strange designs
with which the political heads of the Department are credited. "These suspicions we believe
to be without any real foundation, but they are active, though Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL and
General SEELY may be wholly unconscious of them. We believe they are, and if they are the
sooner they are told what is said about their intentions the better."
So _The Times_ proceeds to describe these nefarious if nebulous designs and appeals to
Mr.
WINSTON CHURCHILL in particular, "if he has no such intentions, to
disclaim them publicly and in a way which will leave no breeding-ground
for future rumours."
_The Times_ has done a great service by its splendid candour, but
it has only gone about one-fortieth part of the way. There are
still, we believe, some eighty Ministers, and _all_ without exception
ought to know what is being said about them, to enable them to
confirm or disavow these disquieting speculations. The papers simply
teem with secret histories of the week, diaries of omniscient pundits
and so forth, in which these rumours multiply to an extent that
staggers the plain person.
Take the PREMIER to begin with. Is it really true that he has
decided, as the brain of the Empire can only be located in Printing
House Square, to resign office and become home editor of _The Times_,
leaving foreign policy to be controlled by Mr. WICKHAM STEED? Is
it true that he meditates appointing Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN Minister of
Fine Arts? Is it true that he flies every day from Paris to Mentone,
to receive instructions from a Mysterious Nobleman who is shortly
to be raised to ducal honours? Is it true that until quite recently
he had never heard of JOAN OF ARC and thought that VICTOR HUGO was
a Roman emperor?
Then there is Mr. BONAR LAW. He surely ought to know that it is
said by _The Job_ and _The Morning Ghost_ that he informed Mr.
SMILLIE, during one of their recent conversations, that he hoped,
in the event of a general strike, to be allowed to get away to the
small island in the South Pacific which he has purchased as a refuge
in case of such a contingency. Probably such an idea never entered
his head. But this is what he is supposed to be planning. Let him
therefore disclaim the intention promptly and publicly.
Grievous mischief again is being done by the persistent rumours
current about the intention of the LORD CHANCELLOR to take Orders
with the view of becoming Archbishop of Canterbury at the earliest
possible opportunity. There may be absolutely nothing in it. Mr.
HAROLD SMITH scouts the notion as absurd. But very great men do not
always confide in brothers. NAPOLEON, as we know, thought poorly
of his.
Lastly, is it true that, although Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is still
_nominally_ Chancellor of the Exchequer, he is really a prisoner
in the Tower, conveyed under guard to and from the House, and that
the reprieve of the sentence of capital punishment passed on him
by _The Daily Mail_ may expire--and he with it--at any moment?
These are only a few of the things which are said about them that
Ministers ought to know--if they don't know them already. And if
they do, and basely pretend not to, we feel that we have done a
truly patriotic service in rendering it impossible for them to avoid
enlightening the public. It is always well to know the worst, even
about politicians.

This is an atom: 
* * * * * 
WANTED, A HEBE.
"Tablemaid (thoroughly experienced) required middle of March; god
wages."--_Scots Paper_.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
"'Eh, what?' queried Lawrence in astonishment. 'What are you doing
here, my dear? Are you French?'So he spoke, and the Hellenes, even those who had been out of heart at the thought
of marching up the country, when they heard of the nobleness of Cyrus, were happier and more
eager to follow him on his path.

This is an atom: 
After this Cyrus marched onwards four stages--twenty parasangs--to the river Chalus. That river
is a hundred feet broad, and is stocked with tame fish which the Syrians regard as gods, and
will not suffer to be injured--and so too the pigeons of the place. The villages in which they
encamped belonged to Parysatis, as part of her girdle money (1). From this point he marched
on five stages--thirty parasangs--to the sources of the river Dardas, which is a hundred feet
broad. Here stood the palace of Belesys, the ruler of Syria, with its park--which was a very
large and beautiful one, and full of the products of all the seasons in their course. But Cyrus
cut down the park and burnt the palace. Thence he marched on three stages--fifteen parasangs--to
the river Euphrates, which is nearly half a mile broad. A large and         11 flourishing
city, named Thapsacus, stands on its banks. Here they halted five days, and here Cyrus sent
for the generals of the Hellenes, and told them that the advance was now to be upon Babylon,
against the great king; he bade them communicate this information to the soldiers and persuade
them to follow. The generals called an assembly, and announced the news to the soldiers. The
latter were indignant and angry with the generals, accusing them of having kept secret what
they had long known; and refused to go, unless such a bribe of money were given them as had
been given to their predecessors, when they went up with Cyrus to the court of his father,
not as now to fight a battle, but on a peaceful errand--the visit of a son to his father by
invitation. The demand was reported to Cyrus by the generals, and he undertook to give each
man five silver minae as soon as Babylon was reached, and their pay in full, until he had safely
conveyed them back to Ionia again. In this manner the Hellenic force were persuaded--that is
to say, the majority of them. Menon, indeed, before it was clear what the rest of the soldiers
would do--whether, in fact they would follow Cyrus or not--collected his own troops apart and
made them the following speech; "Men," he said, "if you will listen to me, there is a method
by which, without risk or toil, you may win the special favour of Cyrus beyond the rest of
the soldiers. You ask what it is I would have you to do? I will tell you. Cyrus at this instant
is begging the Hellenes to follow him to attack the king. I say then: Cross the Euphrates at
once, before it is clear what answer the rest will make; if they vote in favour of following,
you will get the credit of having set the example, and Cyrus will be grateful to you. He will
look upon you as being the heartiest in his cause; he will repay, as of all others he best
knows how; while, if the rest vote against crossing, we shall go back again; but as the sole
adherents, whose fidelity he can altogether trust, it is you whom Cyrus will turn to account,
as commandants of garrisons or captains of companies. You need only ask him for whatever you
want, and you will get it from him, as being the friends of Cyrus."

This is an atom: 
(1) Cf. Plat. "Alcib." i. 123 B. "Why, I have been informed by a
    credible person, who went up to the king (at Susa), that he passed
    through a large tract of excellent land, extending for nearly a
    day's journey, which the people of the country called the queen's
    girdle, and another which they called her veil," etc. Olympiodorus
    and the Scholiast both think that Plato here refers to Xenophon
    and this passage of the "Anabasis." Grote thinks it very probable
    that Plato had in his mind Xenophon (either his "Anabasis" or
    personal communications with him).

This is an atom: 
The men heard and obeyed, and before the rest had given their answer, they were already across.
But when Cyrus perceived that Menon's troops  16 had crossed, he was well pleased, and he sent
Glus to the division in question, with this message: "Soldiers, accept my thanks at present;
eventually you shall thank me. I will see to that, or my name is not Cyrus." The soldiers therefore
could not but pray heartily for his success; so high their hopes ran. But to Menon, it was
said, he sent gifts with lordly liberality. This done, Cyrus proceeded to cross; and in his
wake followed the rest of the armament to a man. As they forded, never a man was wetted above
the chest: nor ever until this moment, said the men of Thapascus, had the river been so crossed
on foot, boats had always been required; but these, at the present time, Abrocomas, in his
desire to hinder Cyrus from crossing, had been at pains to burn. Thus the passage was looked
upon as a thing miraculous; the river had manifestly retired before the face of Cyrus, like
a courtier bowing to his future king. From this place he continued his march through Syria
nine stages--fifty parasangs--and they reached the river Araxes. Here were several villages
full of corn and wine; in which they halted three days, and provisioned the army.

This is an atom: 
V

This is an atom: 
Thence he marched on through Arabia, keeping the Euphrates on the       1 right, five desert
stages--thirty-five parasangs. In this region the ground was one long level plain, stretching
far and wide like the sea, full of absinth; whilst all the other vegetation, whether wood or
reed, was sweet scented like spice or sweet herb; there were no trees; but there was wild game
of all kinds--wild asses in greatest abundance, with plenty of ostriches; besides these, there
were bustards and antelopes. These creatures were occasionally chased by the cavalry. The asses,
when pursued, would run forward a space, and then stand still--their pace being much swifter
than that of horses; and as soon as the horses came close, they went through the same performance.
The only way to catch them was for the riders to post themselves at intervals, and to hunt
them in relays, as it were. The flesh of those they captured was not unlike venison, only more
tender. No one was lucky enough to capture an ostrich. Some of the troopers did give chase,
but it had soon to be abandoned; for the bird, in its effort to escape, speedily put a long
interval between itself and its   3 pursuers; plying its legs at full speed, and using its
wings the while like a sail. The bustards were not so hard to catch when started suddenly;
for they only take short flights, like partridges, and are soon tired. Their flesh is delicious.

This is an atom: 
As the army wended its way through this region, they reached the river Mascas, which is one
hundred feet in breadth. Here stood a big deserted city called Corsote, almost literally environed
by the stream, which flows round it in a circle. Here they halted three days and provisioned
themselves. Thence they continued their march thirteen desert stages--ninety parasangs--with
the Euphrates still on their right, until they reached the Gates. On these marches several
of the baggage animals perished of hunger, for there was neither grass nor green herb, or tree
of any sort; but the country throughout was barren. The inhabitants make their living by quarrying
millstones on the river banks, which they work up and take to Babylon and sell, purchasing
corn in exchange for their goods. Corn failed the army, and was not to be got for money, except
in the Lydian market open in Cyrus's Asiatic army; where a kapithe of wheat or barley cost
four shekels; the shekel being equal to seven and a half Attic obols, whilst the kapithe is
the equivalent of two Attic choeneces (1), dry measure, so that the soldiers subsisted on meat
alone for the whole period. Some of the stages were very long, whenever they had to push on
to find water or fodder; and once they found themselves involved in a narrow way, where the
deep clay presented an obstacle to the progress of the wagons. Cyrus, with the nobles about
him, halted to superintend the operation, and ordered Glus and Pigres to take a body of barbarians
and to help in extricating the wagons. As they seemed to be slow about the business, he turned
round angrily to the Persian nobles and bade them lend a hand to force the wagons out. Then,
if ever, what goes to constitute one branch of good discipline, was to be witnessed. Each of
those addressed, just where he chanced to be         8 standing, threw off his purple cloak,
and flung himself into the work with as much eagerness as if it had been a charge for victory.
Down a steep hill side they flew, with their costly tunics and embroidered trousers--some with
the circlets round their necks, and bracelets on their arms--in an instant, they had sprung
into the miry clay, and in less time than one could have conceived, they had landed the wagons
safe on terra firma.

This is an atom: 
(1) The choenix = about 1 quart (or, according to others, 1 1/2 pint).
    It was the minimum allowance of corn for a man, say a slave, per
    diem. The Spartan was allowed at the public table 2 choenices a
    day.

This is an atom: 
Altogether it was plain that Cyrus was bent on pressing on the march, and averse to stoppages,
except where he halted for the sake of provisioning or some other necessary object; being convinced
that the more rapidly he advanced, the less prepared for battle would he find the king; while
the slower his own progress, the larger would be the hostile army which he would find collected.
Indeed, the attentive observer could see, at a glance, that if the king's empire was strong
in its extent of territory and the number of inhabitants, that strength is compensated by an
inherent weakness, dependent upon the length of roads and the inevitable dispersion of defensive
forces, where an invader insists upon pressing home the war by forced marches.

This is an atom: 
On the opposite side of the Euphrates to the point reached on one of these desert stages, was
a large and flourishing city named Charmande. From this town the soldiers made purchases of
provisions, crossing the river on rafts, in the following fashion: They took the skins which
they used as tent coverings, and filled them with light grass; they then compressed and stitched
them tightly together by the ends, so that the water might not touch the hay. On these they
crossed and got provisions: wine made from the date-nut, and millet or panic-corn, the common
staple of the country. Some dispute or other here occurred between the soldiers of Menon and
Clearchus, in which Clearchus sentenced one of Menon's men, as the delinquent, and had him
flogged. The man went back to his own division and told them. Hearing what had been done to
their comrade, his fellows fretted and fumed, and were highly incensed against Clearchus. The
same day Clearchus visited the passage of the river, and after inspecting the market there,
was returning with a few followers, on horseback, to his tent, and had to   12 pass through
Menon's quarters. Cyrus had not yet come up, but was riding up in the same direction. One of
Menon's men, who was splitting wood, caught sight of Clearchus as he rode past, and aimed a
blow at him with his axe. The aim took no effect; when another hurled a stone at him, and a
third, and then several, with shouts and hisses. Clearchus made a rapid retreat to his own
troops, and at once ordered them to get under arms. He bade his hoplites remain in position
with their shields resting against their knees, while he, at the head of his Thracians and
horsemen, of which he had more than forty in his army--Thracians for the most part--advanced
against Menon's soldiers, so that the latter, with Menon himself, were panic-stricken, and
ran to seize their arms; some even stood riveted to the spot, in perplexity at the occurrence.
Just then Proxenus came up from behind, as chance would have it, with his division of hoplites,
and without a moment's hesitation marched into the open space between the rival parties, and
grounded arms; then he fell to begging Clearchus to desist. The latter was not too well pleased
to hear his trouble mildly spoken of, when he had barely escaped being stoned to death; and
he bade Proxenus retire and leave the intervening space open. At this juncture Cyrus arrived
and inquired what was happening. There was no time for hesitation. With his javelins firmly
grasped in his hands he galloped up--escorted by some of his faithful bodyguard, who were present--and
was soon in the midst, exclaiming: "Clearchus, Proxenus, and you other Hellenes yonder, you
know not what you do. As surely as you come to blows with one another, our fate is sealed--this
very day I shall be cut to pieces, and so will you: your turn will follow close on mine. Let
our fortunes once take an evil turn, and these barbarians whom you see around will be worse
foes to us than those who are at present serving the king." At these words Clearchus came to
his senses. Both parties paused from battle, and retired to their quarters: order reigned.

This is an atom: 
VI

This is an atom: 
As they advanced from this point (opposite Charmande), they came upon   1 the hoof-prints and
dung of horses at frequent intervals. It looked like the trail of some two thousand horses.
Keeping ahead of the army, these fellows burnt up the grass and everything else that was good
for use. Now there was a Persian, named Orontas; he was closely related to the king by birth:
and in matters pertaining to war reckoned among the best of Persian warriors. Having formerly
been at war with Cyrus, and afterwards reconciled to him, he now made a conspiracy to destroy
him. he made a proposal to Cyrus: if Cyrus would furnish him with a thousand horsemen, he would
deal with these troopers, who were burning down everything in front of them; he would lay an
ambuscade and cut them down, or he would capture a host of them alive; in any case, he would
put a stop to their aggressiveness and burnings; he would see to it that they did not ever
get a chance of setting eyes on Cyrus's army and reporting its advent to the king. The proposal
seemed plausible to Cyrus, who accordingly authorised Orontas to take a detachment from each
of the generals, and be gone. He, thinking that he had got his horsemen ready to his hand,
wrote a letter to the king, announcing that he would ere long join him with as many troopers
as he could bring; he bade him, at the same time, instruct the royal cavalry to welcome him
as a friend. The letter further contained certain reminders of his former friendship and fidelity.
This despatch he delivered into the hands of one who was a trusty messenger, as he thought;
but the bearer took and gave it to Cyrus. Cyrus read it. Orontas was arrested. Then Cyrus summoned
to his tent seven of the noblest Persians among his personal attendants, and sent orders to
the Hellenic generals to bring up a body of hoplites. These troops were to take up a position
round his tent. This the generals did; bringing up about three thousand hoplites. Clearchus
was also invited inside, to assist at the court-martial; a compliment due to the position he
held among the other generals, in the opinion not only of Cyrus, but also of the rest of the
court. When he came out, he reported the circumstances of the trial (as to which, indeed, there
was no mystery) to his friends. He said that Cyrus opened the inquiry with these words: "I
have invited you hither, my friends, that I may take advice with you, and carry out whatever,
in the sight of God and man, it is right for me to do, as concerning the man before you, Orontas.
The      6 prisoner was, in the first instance, given to me by my father, to be my faithful
subject. In the next place, acting, to use his own words, under the orders of my brother, and
having hold of the acropolis of Sardis, he went to war with me. I met war with war, and forced
him to think it more prudent to desist from war with me: whereupon we shook hands, exchanging
solemn pledges. After that," and at this point Cyrus turned to Orontas, and addressed him personally--"after
that, did I do you any wrong?" Answer, "Never." Again another question: "Then later on, having
received, as you admit, no injury from me, did you revolt to the Mysians and injure my territory,
as far as in you lay?"--"I did," was the reply. "Then, once more having discovered the limits
of your power, did you flee to the altar of Artemis, crying out that you repented? and did
you thus work upon my feelings, that we a second time shook hands and made interchange of solemn
pledges? Are these things so?" Orontas again assented. "Then what injury have you received
from me," Cyrus asked, "that now for the third time, you have been detected in a treasonous
plot against me?"--"I must needs do so," he answered. Then Cyrus put one more question: "But
the day may come, may it not, when you will once again be hostile to my brother, and a faithful
friend to myself?" The other answered: "Even if I were, you could never be brought to believe
it, Cyrus."

This is an atom: 
At this point Cyrus turned to those who were present and said: "Such has been the conduct of
the prisoner in the past: such is his language now. I now call upon you, and you first, Clearchus,
to declare your opinion--what think you?" And Clearchus answered: "My advice to you is to put
this man out of the way as soon as may be, so that we may be saved the necessity of watching
him, and have more leisure, as far as he is concerned, to requite the services of those whose
friendship is sincere."--"To this opinion," he told us, "the rest of the court adhered." After
that, at the bidding of Cyrus, each of those present,   10 in turn, including the kinsmen of
Orontas, took him by the girdle; which is as much as to say, "Let him die the death," and then
those appointed led him out; and they who in old days were wont to do obeisance to him, could
not refrain, even at that moment, from bowing down before him, albeit they knew he was being
led forth to death.

This is an atom: 
After they had conducted him to the tent of Artapates, the trustiest of Cyrus's wand-bearers,
none set eyes upon him ever again, alive or dead. No one, of his own knowledge, could declare
the manner of his death; though some conjectured one thing and some another. No tomb to mark
his resting-place, either then or since, was ever seen.

This is an atom: 
VII

This is an atom: 
From this place Cyrus marched through Babylonia three stages--twelve    1 parasangs. Now, on
the third stage, about midnight, Cyrus held a review of the Hellenes and Asiatics in the plain,
expecting that the king would arrive the following day with his army to offer battle. He gave
orders to Clearchus to take command of the right wing, and to Menon the Thessalian of the left,
while he himself undertook to the disposition of his own forces in person. After the review,
with the first approach of day, deserters from the great king arrived, bringing Cyrus information
about the royal army. Then Cyrus summoned the generals and captains of the Hellenes, and held
a council of war to arrange the plan of battle. He took this opportunity also to address the
following words of compliment and encouragement to the meeting: "Men of Hellas," he said, "it
is certainly not from dearth of barbarians to fight my battles that I put myself at your head
as my allies; but because I hold you to be better and stronger than many barbarians. That is
why I took you. See then that you prove yourselves to be men worthy of the liberty which you
possess, and which I envy you. Liberty--it is a thing which, be well assured, I would choose
in preference to all my other possessions, multiplied many times. But I would like you to know
into what sort of struggle you are going: learn its nature from one who knows. Their numbers
are great, and they come on with much noise; but if you can hold out against these two things,
I confess I am ashamed to think, what a sorry set of folk you will      4 find the inhabitants
of this land to be. But you are men, and brave you must be, being men: it is agreed; then if
you wish to return home, any of you, I undertake to send you back, in such sort that your friends
at home shall envy you; but I flatter myself I shall persuade many of you to accept what I
will offer you here, in lieu of what you left at home."

This is an atom: 
Here Gaulites, a Samian exile, and a trusty friend of Cyrus, being present, exclaimed: "Ay,
Cyrus, but some say you can afford to make large promises now, because you are in the crisis
of impending danger; but let matters go well with you, will you recollect? They shake their
heads. Indeed, some add that, even if you did recollect, and were ever so willing, you would
not be able to make good all your promises, and repay." When Cyrus heard that, he answered:
"You forget, sirs, my father's empire stretches southwards to a region where men cannot dwell
by reason of the heat, and northwards to a region uninhabitable through cold; but all the intervening
space is mapped out in satrapies belonging to my brother's friends: so that if the victory
be ours, it will be ours also to put our friends in possession in their room. On the whole
my fear is, not that I may not have enough to give to each of my friends, but lest I may not
have friends enough on whom to bestow what I have to give, and to each of you Hellenes I will
give a crown of gold."

This is an atom: 
So they, when they heard these words, were once more elated than ever themselves, and spread
the good news among the rest outside. And there came into his presence both the generals and
some of the other Hellenes also, claiming to know what they should have in the event of victory;
and Cyrus satisfied the expectations of each and all, and so dismissed them. Now the advice
and admonition of all who came into conversation with him was, not to enter the battle himself,
but to post himself in rear of themselves; and at this season Clearchus put a question to him:
"But do you think that your brother will give battle   9 to you, Cyrus?" and Cyrus answered:
"Not without a battle, be assured, shall the prize be won; if he be the son of Darius and Parysatis,
and a brother of mine."

This is an atom: 
In the final arming for battle at this juncture, the numbers were as follows: Of Hellenes there
were ten thousand four hundred heavy infantry with two thousand five hundred targeteers, while
the barbarians with Cyrus reached a total of one hundred thousand. He had too about twenty
scythe-chariots. The enemy's forces were reported to number one million two hundred thousand,
with two hundred scythe-chariots, besides which he had six thousand cavalry under Artagerses.
These formed the immediate vanguard of the king himself. The royal army was marshalled by four
generals or field-marshals, each in command of three hundred thousand men. Their names were
Abrocomas, Tissaphernes, Gobryas, and Arbaces. (But of this total not more than nine hundred
thousand were engaged in the battle, with one hundred and fifty scythe-chariots; since Abrocomas,
on his march from Phoenicia, arrived five days too late for the battle.) Such was the information
brought to Cyrus by deserters who came in from the king's army before the battle, and it was
corroborated after the battle by those of the enemy who were taken prisoners.

This is an atom: 
From this place Cyrus advanced one stage--three parasangs--with the whole body of his troops,
Hellenic and barbarian alike in order of battle. He expected the king to give battle the same
day, for in the middle of this day's march a deep sunk trench was reached, thirty feet broad,
and eighteen feet deep. The trench was carried inland through the plain, twelve parasang's
distance, to the wall of Media (1).  (Here are canals, flowing from the river Tigris; they
are four in number, each a hundred feet broad, and very deep, with corn ships plying upon 
15 them; they empty themselves into the Euphrates, and are at intervals of one parasang apart,
and are spanned by bridges.)

This is an atom: 
(1) For "the wall of Media" see Grote, "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p.
    87 and foll. note 1 (1st ed.), and various authorities there
    quoted or referred to. The next passage enclosed in  () may
    possibly be a commentator's or editor's note, but, on the whole, I
    have thought it best to keep the words in the text instead of
    relegating them, as heretofore, to a note. Perhaps some future
    traveller may clear up all difficulties.

This is an atom: 
Between the Euphrates and the trench was a narrow passage, twenty feet only in breadth. The
trench itself had been constructed by the great king upon hearing of Cyrus's approach, to serve
as a line of defence. Through this narrow passage then Cyrus and his army passed, and found
themselves safe inside the trench. So there was no battle to be fought with the king that day;
only there were numerous unmistakable traces of horse and infantry in retreat. Here Cyrus summoned
Silanus, his Ambraciot soothsayer, and presented him with three thousand darics; because eleven
days back, when sacrificing, he had told him that the king would not fight within ten days,
and Cyrus had answered: "Well, then, if he does not fight within that time, he will not fight
at all; and if your prophecy comes true, I promise you ten talents." So now, that the ten days
were passed, he presented him with the above sum.

This is an atom: 
But as the king had failed to hinder the passage of Cyrus's army at the trench, Cyrus himself
and the rest concluded that he must have abandoned the idea of offering battle, so that next
day Cyrus advanced with less than his former caution. On the third day he was conducting the
march, seated in his carriage, with only a small body of troops drawn up in front of him. The
mass of the army was moving on in no kind of order: the soldiers having consigned their heavy
arms to be carried in the wagons or on the backs of beasts.

This is an atom: 
VIII

This is an atom: 
It was already about full market time (1) and the halting-place at       1 which the army was
to take up quarters was nearly reached, when Pategyas, a Persian, a trusty member of Cyrus's
personal staff, came galloping up at full speed on his horse, which was bathed in sweat, and
to every one he met he shouted in Greek and Persian, as fast as he could ejaculate the words:
"The king is advancing with a large army ready for battle." Then ensued a scene of wild confusion.
The Hellenes and all alike were expecting to be attacked on the instant, and before they could
form their lines. Cyrus sprang from his carriage and donned his corselet; then leaping on to
his charger's back, with the javelins firmly clutched, he passed the order to the rest, to
arm themselves and fall into their several ranks.

This is an atom: 
(1) I.e. between 9 and 10 A.M.

This is an atom: 
The orders were carried out with alacrity; the ranks shaped themselves. Clearchus held the
right wing resting on the Euphrates, Proxenus was next, and after him the rest, while Menon
with his troops held the Hellenic left. Of the Asiatics, a body of Paphlagonian cavalry, one
thousand strong, were posted beside Clearchus on the right, and with them stood the Hellenic
peltasts. On the left was Ariaeus, Cyrus's second in command, and the rest of the barbarian
host. Cyrus was with his bodyguard of cavalry about six hundred strong, all armed with corselets
like Cyrus, and cuirasses and helmets; but not so Cyrus: he went into battle with head unhelmeted
(2). So too all the horses with Cyrus wore forehead-pieces and breast-pieces, and the troopers
carried short Hellenic swords.

This is an atom: 
(2) The MSS. add, "to expose oneself to the risks of war bareheaded
    is, it is said, a practice common to the Persians," which I regard
    as a commentator's note, if not an original marginal note of some
    early editor, possibly of the author himself. The "Cyropaedeia" is
    full of such comments, "pieces justificatives" inserted into the
    text.

This is an atom: 
It was now mid-day, and the enemy was not yet in sight; but with the approach of afternoon
was seen dust like a white cloud, and after a considerable interval a black pall as it were
spread far and high above the plain. As they came nearer, very soon was seen here and there
a glint of bronze and spear-points; and the ranks could plainly be distinguished. On the left
were troopers wearing white cuirasses. That is Tissaphernes in command, they said, and next
to these a body of men bearing wicker-shields, and next again heavy-armed infantry, with long
wooden shields reaching to the feet. These were the Egyptians, they said, and then other cavalry,
other bowmen; all were in national divisions, each nation marching in densely-crowded     
10 squares. And all along their front was a line of chariots at considerable intervals from
one another--the famous scythe-chariots, as they were named--having their scythes fitted to
the axle-trees and stretching out slantwise, while others protruded under the chariot-seats,
facing the ground, so as to cut through all they encountered. The design was to let them dash
full speed into the ranks of the Hellenes and cut them through.

This is an atom: 
Curiously enough the anticipation of Cyrus, when at the council of war he admonished the Hellenes
not to mind the shouting of the Asiatics, was not justified. Instead of shouting, they came
on in deep silence, softly and slowly, with even tread. At this instant, Cyrus, riding past
in person, accompanied by Pigres, his interpreter, and three or four others, called aloud to
Clearchus to advance against the enemy's centre, for there the king was to be found: "And if
we strike home at this point," he added, "our work is finished." Clearchus, though he could
see the compact body at the centre, and had been told by Cyrus that the king lay outside the
Hellenic left (for, owing to numerical superiority, the king, while holding his own centre,
could well overlap Cyrus's extreme left), still hesitated to draw off his right wing from the
river, for fear of being turned on both flanks; and he simply replied, assuring Cyrus that
he would take care all went well.

This is an atom: 
At this time the barbarian army was evenly advancing, and the Hellenic division was still riveted
to the spot, completing its formation as the various contingents came up. Cyrus, riding past
at some distance from the lines, glanced his eye first in one direction and then in the other,
so as to take a complete survey of friends and foes; when Xenophon the Athenian, seeing him,
rode up from the Hellenic quarter to meet him, asking him whether he had any orders to give.
Cyrus, pulling up his horse, begged him to make the announcement generally known that the omens
from the victims, internal and external alike, were good (3). While he was still speaking,
he heard a confused murmur   16 passing through the ranks, and asked what it meant. The other
replied that it was the watchword being passed down for the second time. Cyrus wondered who
had given the order, and asked what the watchword was. On being told it was "Zeus our Saviour
and Victory," he replied, "I accept it; so let it be," and with that remark rode away to his
own position. And now the two battle lines were no more than three or four furlongs apart,
when the Hellenes began chanting the paean, and at the same time advanced against the enemy.

This is an atom: 
(3) I.e. the omens from inspecting the innards of the victims, and the
    omens from the acts and movements of the victims.

This is an atom: 
But with the forward movement a certain portion of the line curved onwards in advance, with
wave-like sinuosity, and the portion left behind quickened to a run; and simultaneously a thrilling
cry burst from all lips, like that in honour of the war-god--eleleu! eleleu! and the running
became general. Some say they clashed their shields and spears, thereby causing terror to the
horses (4); and before they had got within arrowshot the barbarians swerved and took to flight.
And now the Hellenes gave chase with might and main, checked only by shouts to one another
not to race, but to keep their ranks. The enemy's chariots, reft of their charioteers, swept
onwards, some through the enemy themselves, others past the Hellenes. They, as they saw them
coming, opened a gap and let them pass. One fellow, like some dumbfoundered mortal on a racecourse,
was caught by the heels, but even he, they said, received no hurt, nor indeed, with the single
exception of some one on the left wing who was said to have been wounded by an arrow, did any
Hellene in this battle suffer a single hurt.

This is an atom: 
(4) Some critics regard this sentence as an editor's or commentator's
    note.

This is an atom: 
Cyrus, seeing the Hellene's conquering, as far as they at any rate were concerned, and in hot
pursuit, was well content; but in spite of his joy and the salutations offered him at that
moment by those about   21 him, as though he were already king, he was not led away to join
in the pursuit, but keeping his squadron of six hundred horsemen in cloe order, waited and
watched to see what the king himself would do. The king, he knew, held the centre of the Persian
army. Indeed it is the fashion for the Asiatic monarch to occupy that position during action,
for this twofold reason: he holds the safest place, with his troops on either side of him,
while, if he has occasion to despatch any necessary rider along the lines, his troops will
receive the message in half the time. The king accordingly on this occasion held the centre
of his army, but for all that, he was outside Cyrus's left wing; and seeing that no one offered
him battle in front, nor yet the troops in front of him, he wheeled as if to encircle the enemy.
It was then that Cyrus, in apprehension lest the king might get round to the rear and cut to
pieces the Hellenic body, charged to meet him. Attacking with his six hundred, he mastered
the line of troops in front of the king, and put to flight the six thousand, cutting down,
as is said, with his own hand their general, Artagerses.

This is an atom: 
But as soon as the rout commenced, Cyrus's own six hundred themselves, in the ardour of pursuit,
were scattered, with the exception of a handful who were left with Cyrus himself--chiefly his
table companions, so-called. Left alone with these, he caught sight of the king, and the close
throng about him. Unable longer to contain himself, with a cry, "I see the man," he rushed
at him and dealt a blow at his chest, wounding him through the corselet. This, according to
the statement of Ctesias the surgeon (5), who further states that he himself healed the wound.
As Cyrus delivered the blow, some one struck him with a javelin under the eye severely; and
in the struggle which then ensued between the king and Cyrus and those about them to protect
one or other, we have the statement of Ctesias as to the number slain   27 on the king's side,
for he was by his side. On the other, Cyrus himself fell, and eight of his bravest companions
lay on the top of him. The story says that Artapes, the trustiest among his wand-wearers, when
he saw that Cyrus had fallen to the ground, leapt from his horse and threw his arms about him.
Then, as one account says, the king bade one slay him as a worthy victim to his brother: others
say that Artapates drew his scimitar and slew himself by his own hand. A golden scimitar it
is true, he had; he wore also a collar and bracelets and the other ornaments such as the noblest
Persians wear; for his kindliness and fidelity had won him honours at the hands of Cyrus.

This is an atom: 
(5) "Ctesias, the son of Ctesiochus, was a physician of Cnidos.
    Seventeen years of his life were passed at the court of Persia,
    fourteen in the service of Darios, three in that of Artaxerxes; he
    returned to Greece in 398 B.C.," and "was employed by Artaxerxes
    in diplomatic services." See Mure; also Ch. Muller, for his life
    and works. He wrote (1) a history on Persian affairs in three
    parts--Assyrian, Median, Persian--with a chapter "On Tributes;"
    (2) a history of Indian affairs (written in the vein of Sir John
    Maundeville, Kt.); (3) a Periplus; (4) a treatise on Mountains;
    (5) a treatise on Rivers.

This is an atom: 
IX

This is an atom: 
So died Cyrus; a man the kingliest (1) and most worthy to rule of all    1 the Persians who
have lived since the elder Cyrus: according to the concurrent testimony of all who are reputed
to have known him intimately. To begin from the beginning, when still a boy, and whilst being
brought up with his brother and the other lads, his unrivalled excellence was recognised. For
the sons of the noblest Persians, it must be known, are brought up, one and all, at the king's
portals. Here lessons of sobriety and self-control may largely be laid to heart, while there
is nothing base or ugly for eye or ear to feed upon. There is the daily spectacle ever before
the boys of some receiving honour from the king, and again of others receiving dishonour; and
the tale of all this is in their ears, so that from earliest boyhood they learn how to rule
and to be ruled.

This is an atom: 
(1) The character now to be drawn is afterwards elaborated into the
    Cyrus of the Cyropaedeia.

This is an atom: 
In this courtly training Cyrus earned a double reputation; first he was held to be a paragon
of modesty among his fellows, rendering an obedience to his elders which exceeded that of many
of his own inferiors; and next he bore away the palm for skill in horsemanship and for love
of the animal itself. Away!--away!--yon golden sun Hath chas'd nights' shadows damp and dun;
Forth from his turfy couch, the lark Hath sprung to meet glad day: and hark!
A mingling and delicious song Breathes from the blithe-voiced plumy throng; While, to the green-wood
hasten _we_ Whose craft is, gentle archery!

This is an atom: 
Now swift we bound o'er dewy grass!
Rousing the red fox as we pass, And startling linnet, merle, and thrush, As recklessly the
boughs we brush.

This is an atom: 
The _hunter's_ horn sings thro' the brakes.

This is an atom: 
And its soft lay apt echo takes; But soon her sweet enamoured tone Shall tell what song is all _our_
own!

This is an atom: 
On!--on!--glad brothers of the bow!
The dun deer's couching place ye know, And gallant bucks this day shall rue Our feather'd
shafts,--so swift,--so true; Yet, sorer than the sylvan train, Our foes, upon the battle-plain,
Will mourn at the unerring hands Of Albion's _matchless_ archer bands!

This is an atom: 
Now hie we on, to silent shades, To glist'ning streams, and sunlit glades, Where all that
woodland life can give, Renders it bliss indeed, to _live_.
Come, ye who love the shadowy wood, Whate'er your days, whate'er your mood.
And join _us_, freakish knights that be Of grey-goose wing, and
good yew-tree!

This is an atom: 
Say--are ye _mirthful_?--then we'll sing Of wayward feasts and frolicking;-- Tell jests and
gibes,--nor lack we store Of knightly tales, and monkish lore; High freaks of dames and cavaliers,
Of warlocks, spectres, elfs, and seers, Till with glad heart, and blithesome brow, Ye bless
your brothers of the bow!

This is an atom: 
Is _sadness_ courted?--ye shall lie When summer's sultry noons are high, By darkling forest's
shadow'd stream To muse;--or, sweeter still, to dream Day-dreams of love; while round ye rise
Distant, delicious harmonies; Until ye languishing declare An archer's life, indeed is
fair!

This is an atom: 
M. L. B.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
THE NOVELIST
NO. CV.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *

This is an atom: 
THE GHIBELLINES.

This is an atom: 
_A Fragment of a Tuscan Tale_.

This is an atom: 
BY MISS EMMA ROBERTS.

This is an atom: 
"His name's Gonzago.--The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian."
Ten thousand lights burned throughout the Alberoni palace, and all
the nobility of Florence flocked to the bridal of its wealthy lord.

This is an atom: 
It was a fair sight to see the stately mirrors which spread their shining surfaces between
pillars of polished marble reflecting the gay assemblage, that, radiant with jewels,
promenaded the saloon, or wreathed the dance to the witching music of the most skilful minstrels
in all Tuscany. Every lattice was open, and the eye, far as it could reach, wandered through
illuminated gardens, tenanted by gay groups, where the flush of the roses, the silver stars
of the jasmine, the crimson, purple, orange, and blue of the variegated parterre were
revealed as if the brightest blaze of day flashed upon their silken leaves. Amid all this
pomp of beauty and splendour the bride moved along, surpassing all that was fair and resplendent
around her by the exceeding loveliness of a face and form to which every eye and every heart
paid involuntary homage.

This is an atom: 
At her side appeared the exulting bridegroom, to whom, however, more it should seem through
diffidence than aversion, her eyes were never raised; for though Count Alberoni had advanced
beyond the middle age of life, yet he still retained the majestic port and commanding lineaments
for which he had been distinguished in early youth; his riches rendered him all potent in
Florence, and none dared dispute with him the possession of its fairest flower. Intoxicated
with the pleasures offered at the banquet and the ball, whatever of envy or of jealousy might
have been hidden in the bosoms of the guests while contemplating the treasure which the
triumphant Alberoni had snatched from contending suitors, it was concealed, and the most
cheerful hilarity prevailed. Yet, amid the general expression of happiness, there were two
persons who, attracting notice by the meanness of their attire, and the melancholy gloom upon
their countenances, seemed to be out of place in so stately and so joyous an assembly. They were
brother and sister, the descendants of Ghibellines who had died in exile, and distant relations
of the Count, who though not choosing to regard them as his heirs, had, when the abolition
of a severe law enabled the proscribed faction to return to Florence, accorded them shelter
and protection. Meanly clad in vestments of coarse serge, there were yet no cavaliers who fluttered
in silk and velvet who could compare in personal beauty with Francesco Gonzago; and the bride alone,
of all the beauties who shone in gold and silver, appeared superior in feminine charms to the
lovely Beatrice, notwithstanding that her cumbrous robe of grey stuff obscured the delicate
proportions of her sylph-like form. Buoyant in spirit, and animated by the scene before
her, occasionally a gleam of sunshine would irradiate her brow as she gazed upon the sparkling
throng who formed the brilliant pageant which so much delighted
her; but as she turned to express her feelings to her brother, his
pale pensive features and the recollection of the intense anguish
which wrung his heart, subdued her gaiety, the smile passed away
from her lip, the rose deserted her cheek, and she stood by his
side sad and sorrowful as some monumental statue.

This is an atom: 
Many persons grieved at the depressed fortunes of the once powerful Gonzagos, but there were
others who sneered at their present degradation, enjoying the cruel mockery with which
Alberoni had forced the man who had cherished hopes of succeeding as heir-at-law to his
immense estates, to witness the downfall of those flattering expectations. Few and slight
were the salutations which passed between the dejected pair and the more illustrious guests;
but as the bride made the circuit of the apartments, she paused when approaching her husband's
neglected relatives, and raising eyes swimming with drops of sympathy, greeted them with
unaffected tenderness. Francesco was unprepared for the gentle kindness of her address; his
stern heart melted, his proud glance suddenly changed to one of gracious courtesy; he gazed
upon her as upon some angelic being sent down from heaven to soothe and gladden his perturbed
soul; and henceforward he saw nothing in the glare, and the crowd, and the splendour around
him, save the sweet face and the delicate form of the Countess Alberoni; his charmed eyes
followed her from place to place, and so entirely was he engrossed by one object, that he did
not perceive that the attention of Beatrice was almost wholly
occupied by a young and sprightly cavalier, who pursued her like a
shadow, pouring tender tales in a not unwilling ear.

This is an atom: 
Group by group the guests retired from the festive scene, and the
brother and sister, scarcely able to define the new feelings which
sprung up in the heart of each, quitted the magnificent palace to
seek their forlorn abode.

This is an atom: 
A pavilion, nearly in ruins, was the sole shelter which the proud lord of Alberoni afforded
to the only surviving branches of his family, when returning to their native city they found
their patrimonial estates confiscated, and themselves dependent upon the niggard bounty of
a cold and selfish relative. Slowly recovering from a severe wound which he had received in the
wars of Lombardy, and disgusted with the ingratitude of the prince he served, the ill-starred
Francesco was at first rejoiced to obtain any refuge from the storms of a tempestuous world;
and the unceasing efforts of his young and affectionate sister to reconcile him to a bitter
lot were not wholly unavailing. Summer had spread her richest treasures upon the lap of
Nature; and the fairy hands of Beatrice transformed the bare walls of the dilapidated edifice
which they inhabited into bowers of luxuriant foliage; the most delicious fruit also, the
spontaneous product of the garden, cooled at some crystal fount
and heaped with flowers, tempted her brother's languid appetite;
and, waking the soft notes of her lute, she soothed his desponding
spirit with music's gentlest sound.

This is an atom: 
Fondly trusting that Francesco might be won to prize the simple enjoyments of which fortune
could not despoil him, and to find his dearest happiness in an approving conscience, the light hearted
girl indulged in delusive hopes of future felicity. But these expectations were soon damped;
as Francesco's health returned he became restless and melancholy; he saw no prospect of arriving at
distinction by his talents, or by his sword; peace reigned throughout the Tuscan states, and the
jealousy of the government of all who bore the mark of Ghibelline extraction, forbade the chance
of successful exertion and honourable reward; his days were spent in moody abstraction, his
nights in feverish dreams; his misfortunes, his accomplishments
and his virtues failed to excite affection in the breast of his
kinsman, who, jealous of the youth and personal attractions of the
man apparently destined to be his heir, grew uneasy at the thought
of benefitting a person he had learned to hate; and suddenly resolving
to cut off at once the presumptuous expectations which the luckless
exile might have cherished, exerted the influence procured by his
wealth to form an alliance with the most peerless beauty which the
city boasted.

This is an atom: 
A new source of anguish added to the misery already sustained by the wretched Gonzago; his
arm was paralyzed by the utter hopelessness of any attempt to emerge from the obscurity to
which fate had condemned him; he brooded over the dismal futurity which opened before him;
and, as a solace to these gloomy meditations, suffered his imagination to dwell upon the charms
and graces of the lovely Giacinta, his kinsman's gentle bride. He saw her sometimes flitting
through the myrtle groves which skirted the neighbouring palace; and when night favoured his
concealment, he would approach the marble porticos to catch the sound of her voice as,
accompanied by a lute, she wasted its melody upon the silent stars. Beatrice, in the mean
time, experienced only in the pale brow and haggard form of her brother an alloy to her
happiness. Alessandro, the young heir of the Orsini family, had abandoned the gay revels of
Florence to share the solitude of the despised Ghibellines; and although there seemed to be
little chance of ultimate triumph over the obstacles which opposed themselves to an alliance
between the prosperous scion of a noble house and the unportioned
orphan of a banished man, yet hope pre-ponderated over fear, and,
blessed by her enchanting smiles, the lover indulged in delightful
anticipations.

This is an atom: 
...

This is an atom: 
Again was the Alberoni palace illumined by innumerable tapers; again were the glittering saloons
filled with all the noble population of Florence. A second nuptial feast, more splendid and
joyous than the first, was celebrated; again Giacinta, lovelier than ever, shone as the bride,
and by her side a cavalier appeared, whose summer of life was better adapted to match with
her tender years than the mature age of her late husband had been.

This is an atom: 
The Count Alberoni Gonzago was dead; and Francesco succeeding to his wealth, had obtained the hand
of his widow. Beatrice, also a bride, followed in the train of the Countess, but followed more
like a mourner at some funeral solemnity than as the newly wedded consort of the husband of her
choice. Francesco all smiles and triumph, as he stood with the fairest hand in Florence
hanging on his arm, proudly greeting the guests who crowded to pay him homage, turned frequently,
and cast looks of piercing examination and reproach upon his pale and trembling sister, and,
as if fascinated by his glance, she would rally her, failing spirits
and smile languidly upon the bridegroom, who bent over her enamoured;
and then, as if beguiled from some painful contemplation by the
sweet accents of the man she loved, she became calm, and her quivering
features resumed their wonted placidity.

This is an atom: 
But these moments of tranquillity were of short duration; she started at every shadow; the flash of
one of the jewels which broidered her satin robe would cause a fit of trembling; and at length,
when seated at the banquet opposite her brother and his bride, a richly clad domestic offered wine
in a golden goblet; for a moment she held it to her lips, and then dashed it away, exclaiming--"It
is poison! Hide me,--save me. I see it every where; in those green leaves from whence it was
distilled.--Oh! Francesco, Francesco, let us be poor and happy!" The guests shrunk aghast from
the speaker, who, falling from her seat, expired in convulsions.

This is an atom: 
The power conferred by Gonzago's immense riches silenced the whispered murmurs of the
assembly.
No man rose to higher eminence in the state than the idolized husband of the beautiful Giacinta;
but a dark cloud hung upon his house, his children were all cut off in their infancy, and,
after a few brief years of outward felicity, struck from his horse
by the fragment of a building which fell upon him as he rode in
pomp through the city, he received a mortal wound, surviving the
accident only long enough to unburthen his soul to his confessor.

This is an atom: 
His dying words were addressed to Alessandro, from whom since the hour of his nuptials he had
been estranged; pressing his hand, he exclaimed--"She was innocent! she heard not of the murder
until it had been accomplished."--_London Weekly Review_.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

This is an atom: 
* * * * * 
RAFTS AND RHINE SCENERY.

This is an atom: 
Between Andernach and Bonn I saw two or three of those
     enormous rafts which are formed of the accumulated
     produce of the Swiss and German forests. One was anchored
     in the middle of the river, and looked like a floating
     island. These _Krakens_ of the Rhine are composed of oak and
     fir floated in smaller rafts down the tributary streams, and,
     their size constantly increasing till they arrive hereabouts,
     they make platforms of from four hundred to seven hundred
     feet long, and one hundred and forty feet in breadth.

This is an atom: 
When in motion, a dozen boats and more precede them, carrying anchors
and cables to guide and arrest their course.

This is an atom: 
The navigation of a raft down the Rhine to Dort, in Holland, which is the place of their destination,[4]
is a work of great difficulty. The skill of the German and Dutch pilots who navigate them, in
spite of the abrupt turnings, the eddies, the currents, rocks and shoals that oppose their progress,
must indeed be of a very peculiar kind, and can be possessed but by few. It requires besides
a vast deal of manual labour. The whole complement of rowers and workmen, together with their
wives and children, on board one of the _first-rates_, amounts to the astonishing number
of nine hundred or a thousand; a little village, containing from forty to sixty wooden
houses, is erected upon each, which also is furnished with stalls for cattle, a magazine for
provisions, &c. The dwelling appropriated to the use of the master of the raft and the
principal super-cargoes was conspicuous for its size and commodiousness.

This is an atom: 
It is curious to observe these rafts, on their passage, with their
    companies of rowers stationed at each end, making the shores
    ring again to the sound of their immense oars.

This is an atom: 
[4] About twelve of these rafts annually arrive at Dort, in July or August; when the German
timber merchants, having converted their floats into good Dutch ducats, return to their own
country. When the water is low, those machines are sometimes months upon the journey.--_Campbell's
Guide_.

This is an atom: 
Now, we can promise to Ariaeus that, if he will join us here, we will place him on
the king's throne. Surely to those who conquer empire pertains." With these words he sent back
the messengers and with them he sent Cheirisophus the Laconian, and Menon the Thessalian. That
was what Menon himself wished, being, as he was, a friend and intimate of Ariaeus, and bound
by mutual ties of hospitality. So these set off, and Clearchus waited for them.

This is an atom: 
The soldiers furnished themselves with food  (and drink) as best they might--falling back on
the baggage animals, and cutting up oxen and asses. There was no lack of firewood; they need
only step forward a few paces from the line where the battle was fought, and they would find
arrows to hand in abundance, which the Hellenes had forced the deserters from the king to throw
away. There were arrows and wicker shields also, and the huge wooden shields of the Egyptians.
There were many targets also, and empty wagons left to be carried off. Here was a store which
they were not slow to make use of to cook their meat and serve their meals that day.

This is an atom: 
It was now about full market hour (2) when heralds from the king and Tissaphernes arrived.
These were barbarians with one exception. This was a certain Phalinus, a Hellene who lived
at the court of Tissaphernes, and was held in high esteem. He gave himself out to be a connoisseur
of tactics and the art of fighting with heavy arms. These were the men who now came up, and
having summoned the generals of the Hellenes, they delivered themselves of the following message:
"The great king having won the victory and slain Cyrus, bids the Hellenes to surrender their
arms; to betake themselves to the gates of the king's palace, and there obtain for themselves
what terms they can." That was what the heralds said, and the Hellenes listened with heavy
9 hearts; but Clearchus spoke, and his words were few; "Conquerors do not, as a rule, give
up their arms"; then turning to the others he added, "I leave it to you, my fellow-generals,
to make the best and noblest answer, that ye may, to these gentlemen. I will rejoin you presently."
At the moment an official had summoned him to come and look at the entrails which had been
taken out, for, as it chanced, he was engaged in sacrificing. As soon as he was gone, Cleanor
the Arcadian, by right of seniority, answered: "They would sooner die than give up their arms."
Then Proxenus the Theban said: "For my part, I marvel if the king demands our arms as our master,
or for the sake of friendship merely, as presents. If as our master, why need he ask for them
rather than come and take them? But if he would fain wheedle us out of them by fine speeches,
he should tell us what the soldiers will receive in turn for such kindness." In answer to him
Phalinus said: "The king claims to have conquered, because he has put Cyrus to death; and who
is there now to claim the kingdom as against himself? He further flatters himself that you
also are in his power, since he holds you in the heart of his country, hemmed in by impassable
rivers; and he can at any moment bring against you a multitude so vast that even if leave were
given to rise and slay you could not kill them." After him Theopompus (3) the Athenian spoke.
"Phalinus," he said, "at this instant, as you yourself can see, we have nothing left but our
arms and our valour. If we keep the former we imagine we can make use of the latter; but if
we deliver up our arms we shall presently be robbed of our lives. Do not suppose then that
we are going to give up to you the only good things which we possess. We prefer to keep them;
and by their help we will do battle with you for the good things which are yours." Phalinus
laughed when he heard those words, and said:       13 "Spoken like a philosopher, my fine young
man, and very pretty reasoning too; yet, let me tell you, your wits are somewhat scattered
if you imagine that your valour will get the better of the king's power." There were one or
two others, it was said, who with a touch of weakness in their tone or argument, made answer:
"They had proved good and trusty friends to Cyrus, and the king might find them no less valuable.
If he liked to be friends with them, he might turn them to any use that pleased his fancy,
say for a campaign against Egypt. Their arms were at his service; they would help to lay that
country at his feet."

This is an atom: 
(2) 10 A.M.

This is an atom: 
(3) So the best MSS. Others read "Xenophon," which Kruger maintains to
    be the true reading. He suggests that "Theopompus" may have crept
    into the text from a marginal note of a scholiast, "Theopompus"
    (the historian) "gives the remark to Proxenus."

This is an atom: 
Just then Clearchus returned, and wished to know what answer they had given. The words were
barely out of his mouth before Phalinus interrupting, answered: "As for your friends here,
one says one thing and one another; will you please give us your opinion"; and he replied:
"The sight of you, Phalinus, caused me much pleasure; and not only me, but all of us, I feel
sure; for you are a Hellene even as we are--every one of us whom you see before you. In our
present plight we would like to take you into our counsel as to what we had better do touching
your proposals. I beg you then solemnly, in the sight of heaven--do you tender us such advice
as you shall deem best and worthiest, and such as shall bring you honour of after time, when
it will be said of you how once on a time Phalinus was sent by the great king to bid certain
Hellenes yield up their arms, and when they had taken him into their counsel, he gave them
such and such advice. You know that whatever advice you do give us cannot fail to be reported
in Hellas."

This is an atom: 
Clearchus threw out these leading remarks in hopes that this man, who was the ambassador from
the king, might himself be led to advise them not to give up their arms, in which case the
Hellenes would be still more sanguine and hopeful. But, contrary to his expectation, Phalinus
turned round and said: "I say that if you have one chance, one hope in ten thousand to wage
a war with the king successfully, do not give up your arms. That is my advice. If, however,
you have no chance of escape without the king's consent, then I say save yourselves in the
only way you can." And Clearchus answered: "So, then, that is your      20 deliberate view?
Well, this is our answer, take it back. We conceive that in either case, whether we are expected
to be friends with the king, we shall be worth more as friends if we keep our arms than if
we yield them to another; or whether we are to go to war, we shall fight better with them than
without." And Phalinus said: "That answer we will repeat; but the king bade me tell you this
besides, 'Whilst you remain here there is truce; but one step forward or one step back, the
truce ends; there is war.' Will you then please inform us as to that point also? Are you minded
to stop and keep truce, or is there to be war? What answer shall I take from you?" And Clearchus
replied: "Pray answer that we hold precisely the same views on this point as the king."--"How
say you the same views?" asked Phalinus. Clearchus made answer: "As long as we stay here there
is truce, but a step forward or a step backward, the truce ends; there is war." The other again
asked: "Peace or war, what answer shall I make?" Clearchus returned answer once again in the
same words: "Truce if we stop, but if we move forwards or backwards war." But what he was minded
really to do, that he refused to make further manifest.

This is an atom: 
II

This is an atom: 
Phalinus and those that were with him turned and went. But the          1 messengers from Ariaeus,
Procles and Cheirisophus came back. As to Menon, he stayed behind with Ariaeus, They brought
back this answer from Ariaeus: "'There are many Persians,' he says, 'better than himself who
will not suffer him to sit upon the king's throne; but if you are minded to go back with him,
you must join him this very night, otherwise he will set off himself to-morrow on the homeward
route.'" And Clearchus said: "It had best stand thus between us then. If we come, well and
good, be it as you propose; but if we do not come, do whatsoever you think most conducive to
your interests." And so he kept these also in the dark as to his real intention.

This is an atom: 
After this, when the sun was already sinking, he summoned the generals and officers, and made
the following statement: "Sirs, I sacrificed and found the victims unfavourable to an advance
against the king. After all, it is not so surprising perhaps, for, as I now learn, between
us and the king flows the river Tigris, navigable for big       3 vessels, and we could not
possibly cross it without boats, and boats we have none. On the other hand, to stop here is
out of the question, for there is no possibility of getting provisions. However, the victims
were quite agreeable to us joining the friends of Cyrus. This is what we must do then. Let
each go away and sup on whatever he has. At the first sound of the bugle to turn in, get kit
and baggage together; at the second signal, place them on the baggage animals; and at the third,
fall in and follow the lead, with the baggage animals on the inside protected by the river,
and the troops outside." After hearing the orders, the generals and officers retired, and did
as they were bid; and for the future Clearchus led, and the rest followed in obedience to his
orders, not that they had expressly chosen him, but they saw that he alone had the sense and
wisdom requisite in a general, while the rest were inexperienced (1).

This is an atom: 
(1) The MSS. add the words, "The total distance of the route, taking
    Ephesus in Ionia as the starting point up to the field of battle,
    consisted of 93 stages, 535 parasangs, or 16,050 furlongs; from
    the battle-field to Babylon (reckoned a three days' journey) would
    have been another 360 stades," which may well be an editor's or
    commentator's marginal note.

This is an atom: 
Here, under cover of the darkness which descended, the Thracian Miltocythes, with forty horsemen
and three hundred Thracian infantry, deserted to the king; but the rest of the troops--Clearchus
leading and the rest following in accordance with the orders promulgated--took their departure,
and about midnight reached their first stage, having come up with Ariaeus and his army. They
grounded arms just as they stood in rank, and the generals and officers of the Hellenes met
in the tent of Ariaeus. There they exchanged oaths--the Hellenes on the one side and Ariaeus
with his principal officers on the other--not to betray one another, but to be true to each
other as allies. The Asiatics further solemnly pledged themselves by oath to lead the way without
treachery. The oaths were ratified by the sacrifice of a bull, a wolf (2), a boar, and a ram
over a shield. The Hellenes dipped a sword, the barbarians a lance, into the blood of the victims.

This is an atom: 
(2) It is a question whether the words "a wolf" ought not to be
    omitted.

This is an atom: 
As soon as the pledge was taken, Clearchus spoke: "And now, Ariaeus," he said, "since you and
we have one expedition in prospect, will you    10 tell us what you think about the route;
shall we return the way we came, or have you devised a better?" He answered: "To return the
same way is to perish to a man by hunger; for at this moment we have no provisions whatsoever.
During the seventeen last stages, even on our way hither, we could extract nothing from the
country; or, if there was now and again anything, we passed over and utterly consumed it. At
this time our project is to take another and a longer journey certainly, but we shall not be
in straits for provisions. The earliest stages must be very long, as long as we can make them;
the object is to put as large a space as possible between us and the royal army; once we are
two or three days' journey off, the danger is over. The king will never overtake us. With a
small army he will not dare to dog our heels, and with a vast equipment he will lack the power
to march quickly. Perhaps he, too, may even find a scarcity of provisions. There," said he,
"you asked for my opinion, see, I have given it."

This is an atom: 
Here was a plan of the campaign, which was equivalent to a stampede: helter-skelter they were
to run away, or get into hiding somehow; but fortune proved a better general. For as soon as
it was day they recommenced the journey, keeping the sun on their right, and calculating that
with the westering rays they would have reached villages in the territory of Babylonia, and
in this hope they were not deceived. While it was yet afternoon, they thought they caught sight
of some of the enemy's cavalry; and those of the Hellenes who were not in rank ran to their
ranks; and Ariaeus, who was riding in a wagon to nurse a wound, got down and donned his cuirass,
the rest of his party following his example. Whilst they were arming themselves, the scouts,
who had been sent forward, came back with the information that they were not cavalry but baggage
animals grazing. It was at once clear to all that they must be somewhere in the neighbourhood
of the king's encampment. Smoke could actually be seen rising, evidently from villages not
far ahead. Clearchus hesitated to advance upon the enemy, knowing that the troops were tired
and hungry; and indeed it was already late. On the other hand he had no mind either to swerve
from his route--guarding against any appearance of flight. Accordingly he    16 marched straight
as an arrow, and with sunset entered the nearest villages with his vanguard and took up quarters.

This is an atom: 
These villages had been thoroughly sacked and dismantled by the royal army--down to the very
woodwork and furniture of the houses. Still, the vanguard contrived to take up their quarters
in some sort of fashion; but the rear division, coming up in the dark, had to bivouac as best
they could, one detachment after another; and a great noise they made, with hue and cry to
one another, so that the enemy could hear them; and those in their immediate proximity actually
took to their heels, left their quarters, and decamped, as was plain enough next morning, when
not a beast was to be seen, nor sign of camp or wreath of smoke anywhere in the neighbourhood.
The king, as it would appear, was himself quite taken aback by the advent of the army; as he
fully showed by his proceedings next day.

This is an atom: 
During the progress of this night the Hellenes had their turn of scare--a panic seized them,
and there was a noise and clatter, hardly to be explained except by the visitation of some
sudden terror. But Clearchus had with him the Eleian Tolmides, the best herald of his time;
him he ordered to proclaim silence, and then to give out this proclamation of the generals:
"Whoever will give any information as to who let an ass into the camp shall receive a talent
of silver in reward." On hearing this proclamation the soldiers made up their minds that their
fear was baseless, and their generals safe and sound. At break of day Clearchus gave the order
to the Hellenes to get under arms in line of battle, and take up exactly the same position
as they held on the day of the battle.

This is an atom: 
III

This is an atom: 
And now comes the proof of what I stated above--that the king was       1 utterly taken aback
by the sudden apparition of the army; only the day before, he had sent and demanded the surrender
of their arms--and now, with the rising sun, came heralds sent by him to arrange a truce. These,
having reached the advanced guard, asked for the generals. The guard reported their arrival;
and Clearchus, who was busy inspecting the ranks, sent back word to the heralds that they must
await his leisure. Having carefully arranged the troops so that from every side they might
present the appearance of a compact battle line without a    3 single unarmed man in sight,
he summoned the ambassadors, and himself went forward to meet them with the soldiers, who for
choice accoutrement and noble aspect were the flower of his force; a course which he had invited
the other generals also to adopt.

This is an atom: 
And now, being face to face with the ambassadors, he questioned them as to what their wishes
were. They replied that they had come to arrange a truce, and were persons competent to carry
proposals from the king to the Hellenes and from the Hellenes to the king. He returned answer
to them: "Take back word then to your master, that we need a battle first, for we have had
no breakfast; and he will be a brave man who will dare mention the word 'truce' to Hellenes
without providing them with breakfast." With this message the heralds rode off, but were back
again in no time, which was a proof that the king, or some one appointed by him to transact
the business, was hard by. They reported that "the message seemed reasonable to the king; they
had now come bringing guides who, if a truce were arranged, would conduct them where they would
get provisions." Clearchus inquired "whether the truce was offered to the individual men merely
as they went and came, or to all alike." "To all," they replied, "until the king receives your
final answer." When they had so spoken, Clearchus, having removed the ambassadors, held a council;
and it was resolved to make a truce at once, and then quietly to go and secure provisions;
and Clearchus said: "I agree to the resolution; still I do not propose to announce it at once,
but to wile away time till the ambassadors begin to fear that we have decided against the truce;
though I suspect," he added, "the same fear will be operative on the minds of our soldiers
also." As soon as the right moment seemed to have arrived, he delivered his answer in favour
of the truce, and bade the ambassadors at once conduct them to the provisions.

This is an atom: 
So these led the way; and Clearchus, without relaxing precaution, in spite of having secured
a truce, marched after them with his army in line and himself in command of the rearguard.
Over and over again they encountered trenches and conduits so full of water that they could
not  10 be crossed without bridges; but they contrived well enough for these by means of trunks
of palm trees which had fallen, or which they cut down for the occasion. And here Clearchus's
system of superintendence was a study in itself; as he stood with a spear in his left hand
and a stick in the other; and when it seemed to him there was any dawdling among the parties
told off to the work, he would pick out the right man and down would come the stick; nor, at
the same time, was he above plunging into the mud and lending a hand himself, so that every
one else was forced for very shame to display equal alacrity. The men told off for the business
were the men of thirty years of age; but even the elder men, when they saw the energy of Clearchus,
could not resist lending their aid also. What stimulated the haste of Clearchus was the suspicion
in his mind that these trenches were not, as a rule, so full of water, since it was not the
season to irrigate the plain; and he fancied that the king had let the water on for the express
purpose of vividly presenting to the Hellenes the many dangers with which their march was threatened
at the very start.

This is an atom: 
Proceeding on their way they reached some villages, where their guides indicated to them that
they would find provisions. They were found to contain plenty of corn, and wine made from palm
dates, and an acidulated beverage extracted by boiling from the same fruit. As to the palm
nuts or dates themselves, it was noticeable that the sort which we are accustomed to see in
Hellas were set aside for the domestic servants; those put aside for the masters are picked
specimens, and are simply marvellous for their beauty and size, looking like great golden lumps
of amber; some specimens they dried and preserved as sweetmeats. Sweet enough they were as
an accompaniment of wine, but apt to give headache. Here, too, for the first time in their
lives, the men tasted the brain (1) of the palm. No one could help being struck by the beauty
of this object, and the peculiarity of its delicious flavour; but this, like the dried fruits,
was exceedingly apt to give headache. When this cabbage or brain has been removed from the
palm the whole tree withers from top to bottom.

This is an atom: 
(1) I.e. the cabbage-like crown.

This is an atom: 
In these villages they remained three days, and a deputation from the   17 great king arrived--Tissaphernes
and the king's brother-in-law and three other Persians--with a retinue of many slaves. As soon
as the generals of the Hellenes had presented themselves, Tissaphernes opened the proceedings
with the following speech, through the lips of an interpreter: "Men of Hellas, I am your next-door
neighbour in Hellas. Therefore was it that I, when I saw into what a sea of troubles you were
fallen, regarded it as a godsend, if by any means I might obtain, as a boon from the king,
the privilege of bringing you back in safety to your own country: and that, I take it, will
earn me gratitude from you and all Hellas. In this determination I preferred my request to
the king; I claimed it as a favour which was fairly my due; for was it not I who first announced
to him the hostile approach of Cyrus? who supported that announcement by the aid I brought;
who alone among the officers confronted with the Hellenes in battle did not flee, but charged
right through and united my troops with the king inside your camp, where he was arrived, having
slain Cyrus; it was I, lastly, who gave chase to the barbarians under Cyrus, with the help
of those here present with me at this moment, which are also among the trustiest followers
of our lord the king. Now, I counsel you to give a moderate answer, so that it may be easier
for me to carry out my design, if haply I may obtain from him some good thing on your behalf."

This is an atom: 
Thereupon the Hellenes retired and took counsel. Then they answered, and Clearchus was their
spokesman: "We neither mustered as a body to make war against the king, nor was our march conducted
with that object. But it was Cyrus, as you know, who invented many and divers pretexts, that
he might take you off your guard, and transport us hither. Yet, after a while, when we saw
that he was in sore straits, we were ashamed in the sight of God and man to betray him, whom
we had permitted for so long a season to benefit us. But now that Cyrus is dead, we set up
no claim to his kingdom against the king himself; there is neither person nor thing for the
sake of which we would care   23 to injure the king's country; we would not choose to kill
him if we could, rather we would march straight home, if we were not molested; but, God helping
us, we will retaliate on all who injure us. On the other hand, if any be found to benefit us,
we do not mean to be outdone in kindly deeds, as far as in us lies."

This is an atom: 
So he spoke, and Tissaphernes listened and replied: "That answer will I take back to the king
and bring you word from him again. Until I come again, let the truce continue, and we will
furnish you with a market." All next day he did not come back, and the Hellenes were troubled
with anxieties, but on the third day he arrived with the news that he had obtained from the
king the boon he asked; he was permitted to save the Hellenes, though there were many gainsayers
who argued that it was not seemly for the king to let those who had marched against him depart
in peace. And at last he said: "You may now, if you like, take pledges from us, that we will
make the countries through which you pass friendly to you, and will lead you back without treachery
into Hellas, and will furnish you with a market; and wherever you cannot purchase, we will
permit you to take provisions from the district. You, on your side, must swear that you will
march as through a friendly country, without damage--merely taking food and drink wherever
we fail to supply a market--or, if we afford a market, you shall only obtain provisions by
paying for them." This was agreed to, and oaths and pledges exchanged between them--Tissaphernes
and the king's brother-in-law upon the one side, and the generals and officers of the Hellenes
on the other. After this Tissaphernes said: "And now I go back to the king; as soon as I have
transacted what I have a mind to, I will come back, ready equipped, to lead you away to Hellas,
and to return myself to my own dominion."

This is an atom: 
IV

This is an atom: 
After these things the Hellenes and Ariaeus waited for Tissaphernes,    1 being encamped close
to one another: for more than twenty days they waited, during which time there came visitors
to Ariaeus, his brother and other kinsfolk. To those under him came certain other Persians,
encouraging them and bearing pledges to some of them from the king himself--that he would bear
no grudge against them on account of the part they bore in the expedition against him with
Cyrus, or for aught else of the things which were past. Whilst these overtures were being made,
Ariaeus and his friends gave manifest signs of paying less attention to the Hellenes, so much
so that, if for no other reason, the majority of the latter were not well pleased, and they
came to Clearchus and the other generals, asking what they were waiting for. "Do we not know
full well," they said, "that the king would give a great deal to destroy us, so that other
Hellenes may take warning and think twice before they march against the king. To-day it suits
his purpose to induce us to stop here, because his army is scattered; but as soon as he has
got together another armament, attack us most certainly he will. How do we know he is not at
this moment digging away at trenches, or running up walls, to make our path impassable. It
is not to be supposed that he will desire us to return to Hellas with a tale how a handful
of men like ourselves beat the king at his own gates, laughed him to scorn, and then came home
again." Clearchus replied: "I too am keenly aware of all this; but I reason thus: if we turn
our backs now, they will say, we mean war and are acting contrary to the truce, and then what
follows? First of all, no one will furnish us with a market or means of providing ourselves
with food. Next, we shall have no one to guide us; moreover, such action on our part will be
a signal to Ariaeus to hold aloof from us, so that not a friend will be left to us; even those
who were formerly our friends will now be numbered with our enemies. What other river, or rivers,
we may find we have to cross, I do not know; but this we know, to cross the Euphrates in face
of resistance is impossible. You see, in the event of being driven to an engagement, we have
no cavalry to help us, but with the enemy it is the reverse--not only the most, but the best
of his troops are cavalry, so that if we are victorious, we shall kill no one, but if we are
defeated, not a man of us can escape. For my part, I cannot see why the king, who has so many
advantages on his side, if   7 he desires to destroy us, should swear oaths and tender solemn
pledges merely in order to perjure himself in the sight of heaven, to render his word worthless
and his credit discreditable the wide world over." These arguments he propounded at length.

This is an atom: 
Meanwhile Tissaphernes came back, apparently ready to return home; he had his own force with
him, and so had Orontas, who was also present, his. The latter brought, moreover, his bride
with him, the king's daughter, whom he had just wedded. The journey was now at length fairly
commenced. Tissaphernes led the way, and provided a market. They advanced, and Ariaeus advanced
too, at the head of Cyrus's Asiatic troops, side by side with Tissaphernes and Orontas, and
with these two he also pitched his camp. The Hellenes, holding them in suspicion, marched separately
with the guides, and they encamped on each occasion a parasang apart, or rather less; and both
parties kept watch upon each other as if they were enemies, which hardly tended to lull suspicion;
and sometimes, whilst foraging for wood and grass and so forth on the same ground, blows were
exchanged, which occasioned further embitterments. Three stages they had accomplished ere they
reached the wall of Media, as it is called, and passed within it. It was built of baked bricks
laid upon bitumen. It was twenty feet broad and a hundred feet high, and the length of it was
said to be twenty parasangs. It lies at no great distance from Babylon.

This is an atom: 
From this point they marched two stages--eight parasangs--and crossed two canals, the first
by a regular bridge, the other spanned by a bridge of seven boats. These canals issued from
the Tigris, and from them a whole system of minor trenches was cut, leading over the country,
large ones to begin with, and then smaller and smaller, till at last they become the merest
runnels, like those in Hellas used for watering millet fields. They reached the river Tigris.
At this point there was a large and thickly populated city named Sittace, at a        13 distance
of fifteen furlongs from the river. The Hellenes accordingly encamped by the side of that city,
near a large and beautiful park, which was thick with all sorts of trees.

This is an atom: 
The Asiatics had crossed the Tigris, but somehow were entirely hidden from view. After supper,
Proxenus and Xenophon were walking in front of the place d'armes, when a man came up and demanded
of the advanced guard where he could find Proxenus or Clearchus. He did not ask for Menon,
and that too though he came from Ariaeus, who was Menon's friend. As soon as Proxenus had said:
"I am he, whom you seek," the man replied: "I have been sent by Ariaeus and Artaozus, who have
been trusty friends to Cyrus in past days, and are your well-wishers. They warn you to be on
your guard, in case the barbarians attack you in the night. There is a large body of troops
in the neighbouring park. They also warn you to send and occupy the bridge over the Tigris,
since Tissaphernes is minded to break it down in the night, if he can, so that you may not
cross, but be caught between the river and the canal." On hearing this they took the man to
Clearchus and acquainted him with his statement. Clearchus, on his side, was much disturbed,
and indeed alarmed at the news. But a young fellow who was present (1), struck with an idea,
suggested that the two statements were inconsistent; as to the contemplated attack and the
proposed destruction of the bridge. Clearly, the attacking party must either conquer or be
worsted: if they conquer, what need of their breaking down the bridge? "Why! if there were
half a dozen bridges," said he, "we should not be any the more able to save ourselves by flight--there
would be no place to flee to; but, in the opposite case, suppose we win, with the bridge broken
down, it is they who will not be able to save themselves by flight; and, what is worse for
them, not a single soul will be able to bring them succour from the other side, for all their
numbers, since the bridge will be broken down."

This is an atom: 
(1) Possibly Xenophon himself.

This is an atom: 
Clearchus listened to the reasoning, and then he asked the messenger, "How large the country
between the Tigris and the canal might be?" "A   21 large district," he replied, "and in it
are villages and cities numerous and large." Then it dawned upon them: the barbarians had sent
the man with subtlety, in fear lest the Hellenes should cut the bridge and occupy the island
territory, with the strong defences of the Tigris on the one side and of the canal on the other;
supplying themselves with provisions from the country so included, large and rich as it was,
with no lack of hands to till it; in addition to which, a harbour of refuge and asylum would
be found for any one, who was minded to do the king a mischief.

This is an atom: 
After this they retired to rest in peace, not, however, neglecting to send a guard to occupy
the bridge in spite of all, and there was no attack from any quarter whatsoever; nor did any
of the enemy's people approach the bridges: so the guards were able to report next morning.
But as soon as it was morning, they proceeded to cross the bridge, which consisted of thirty-seven
vessels, and in so doing they used the utmost precaution possible; for reports were brought
by some of the Hellenes with Tissaphernes that an attempt was to be made to attack them while
crossing. All this turned out to be false, though it is true that while crossing they did catch
sight of Glus watching, with some others, to see if they crossed the river; but as soon as
he had satisfied himself on that point, he rode off and was gone.

This is an atom: 
From the river Tigris they advanced four stages--twenty parasangs--to the river Physcus, which
is a hundred feet broad and spanned by a bridge. Here lay a large and populous city named Opis,
close to which the Hellenes were encountered by the natural brother of Cyrus and Artaxerxes,
who was leading a large army from Susa and Ecbatana to assist the king. He halted his troops
and watched the Helleens march past. Clearchus led them in column two abreast: and from time
to time the vanguard came to a standstill, just so often and just so long the effect repeated
itself down to the hindmost man: halt! halt! halt! along the whole line: so that even to the
Hellenes themselves their army seemed enormous; and the Persian was fairly astonished at the
spectacle.

This is an atom: 
"In superiori Germaniæ parte, Marchionatu Onolsbacensi comprehensa, cujus inolæ plurimas
Gentilismi reliquias retinent, regio ipsa multis Druidum vestigiis abundat, tempore adventus
Christi, sive media Hyeme (am Anklopferleinstag), vulgus per vias et pagos currit malleisque
pulsat fores et fenestras indesinenter clamans _Gutheyl! Gutheyl!_ Quod quidem non salutem
per Christi adventum partam indicat, quasi diceres: Gut Heyl; bona salus; multo minus fictitam
Sanctam Günthildem, quam rustici illius tractus miris fabulis ac nugis celebrant, sed nomen ipsum
visci est." {164}

This is an atom: 
The present popular and only German name of the mistletoe, the
parent of our English denomination, is _Mistel_, which is evidently
only _Meist-heyl_ (most heal, or healing), the superlative of the
above _Gut-heyl_, and both wonderfully agreeing with the name which
Pliny says it bore in his time, _Omnia sanans_.

This is an atom: 
William Bell, Ph.D.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *
FOLK LORE.

This is an atom: 
_Folk Lore of South Northamptonshire._--No. 2.

This is an atom: 
_Mice._--A sudden influx of mice into a house, hitherto free from their ravages, denotes approaching
mortality among its inhabitants. A mouse running over a person is considered to be an
infallible sign of death, as is also the squeaking of one behind the bed of an invalid, or
the appearance or apparition of a white mouse running across the room. To meet with a shrew-mouse,
in going a journey, is reckoned ominous of evil. The country people have an idea that the
harvest-mouse is unable to cross a path which has been trod by man. Whenever they attempt,
they are immediately, as my informant expressed it, "struck dead." This, they say, accounts for
the numbers which on a summer's evening may be found lying dead on the verge of the field
footpaths, without any external wound or apparent cause for their demise.

This is an atom: 
_Snakes._--There is a very prevalent belief that a snake can never die till the sun is down.

This is an atom: 
Cut or hack it as you will, it will never die till sunset. This
idea has evidently its source in the amazing vitality common to the
species.
_Poultry._--The crowing of a hen bodes evil, and is frequently
followed by the death of some member of the family. When, therefore,
Dame Partlet thus experiments upon the note of her mate, she pays
her head as the price of her temerity, a complete severance of the
offending member being supposed to be the only way of averting the
threatened calamity.--in what quarter
find refuge?--in what darkness slink away and be hid?--to what strong fortress scale and be
out of reach? Are not all things in all ways subject to the gods? is not their lordship over
all alike outspread? As touching the gods, therefore, and our oaths, that is how I view this
matter. To their safe keeping we consigned the friendship which we solemnly contracted. But
turning to matters human, you I look upon as our greatest blessing in this present time. With
you every path is plain to us, every river passable, and of provisions we shall know no stint.
But without you, all our way is through darkness; for we known nothing concerning it, every
river will be an obstacle, each multitude a terror; but, worst terror of all, the vast wilderness,
so full of endless perplexity. Nay, if in a fit of madness we murdered you, what then? in slaying
our benefactor should we not have challenged to enter the lists against us a more formidable
antagonist in the king himself? Let me tell you, how many high hopes I should rob myself of,
were I to take in hand to do you mischief.

This is an atom: 
(1) The Greater Zab, which flows into the Tigris near a town now
    called Senn, with which most travellers identify Caenae.

This is an atom: 
"I coveted the friendship of Cyrus; I believed him to be abler than any man of his day to benefit
those whom he chose; but to-day I look and, behold, it is you who are in his place; the power
which belonged   11 to Cyrus and his territory are yours now. You have them, and your own satrapy
besides, safe and sound; while the king's power, which was a thorn in the side of Cyrus, is
your support. This being so, it would be madness not to wish to be your friend. But I will
go further and state to you the reasons of my confidence, that you on your side will desire
our friendship. I know that the Mysians are a cause of trouble to you, and I flatter myself
that with my present force I could render them humbly obedient to you. This applies to the
Pisidians also; and I am told there are many other such tribes besides. I think I can deal
with them all; they shall cease from being a constant disturbance to your peace and prosperity.
Then there are the Egyptians (2). I know your anger against them to-day is very great. Nor
can I see what better force you will find to help you in chastising them than this which marches
at my back to-day. Again, if you seek the friendship of any of your neighbours round, there
shall be no friend so great as you; if any one annoys you, with us as your faithful servitors
you shall belord it over him; and such service we will render you, not as hirelings merely
for pay's sake, but for the gratitude which we shall rightly feel to you, to whom we owe our
lives. As I dwell on these matters, I confess, the idea of your feeling mistrust of us is so
astonishing, that I would give much to discover the name of the man, who is so clever of speech
that he can persuade you that we harbour designs against you." Clearchus ended, and Tissaphernes
responded thus--

This is an atom: 
(2) We learn from Diodorus Siculus, xiv. 35, that the Egyptians had
    revolted from the Persians towards the end of the reign of Darius.

This is an atom: 
"I am glad, Clearchus, to listen to your sensible remarks; for with the sentiments you hold,
if you were to devise any mischief against me, it could only be out of malevolence to yourself.
But if you imagine that you, on your side, have any better reason to mistrust the king and
me, than we you, listen to me in turn, and I will undeceive you. I ask you, does it seem to
you that we lack the means, if we had the will, to destroy you? have we not horsemen enough,
or infantry, or whatever other arm you like, whereby we may be able to injure you, without
risk of suffering in return? or, possibly, do we seem to you    17 to lack the physical surroundings
suitable for attacking you? Do you not see all these great plains, which you find it hard enough
to traverse even when they are friendly? and all yonder great mountain chains left for you
to cross, which we can at any time occupy in advance and render impassable? and all those rivers,
on whose banks we can deal craftily by you, checking and controlling and choosing the right
number of you whom we care to fight! Nay, there are some which you will not be able to cross
at all, unless we transport you to the other side.

This is an atom: 
"And if at all these points we were worsted, yet 'fire,' as they say, 'is stronger than the
fruit of the field': we can burn it down and call up famine in arms against you; against which
you, for all your bravery, will never be able to contend. Why then, with all these avenues
of attack, this machinery of war, open to us, not one of which can be turned against ourselves,
why should we select from among them all that method, which alone in the sight of God is impious
and of man abominable? Surely it belongs to people altogether without resources, who are helplessly
struggling in the toils of fate, and are villains to boot, to seek accomplishment of their
desires by perjury to heaven and faithlessness to their fellows. We are not so unreasoning,
Clearchus, nor so foolish.

This is an atom: 
"Why, when we had it in our power to destroy you, did we not proceed to do it? Know well that
the cause of this was nothing less than my passion to prove myself faithful to the Hellenes,
and that, as Cyrus went up, relying on a foreign force attracted by payment, I in turn might
go down strong in the same through service rendered. Various ways in which you Hellenes may
be useful to me you yourself have mentioned, but there is one still greater. It is the great
king's privilege alone to wear the tiara upright upon his head, yet in your presence it may
be given to another mortal to wear it upright, here, upon his heart."

This is an atom: 
Throughout this speech he seemed to Clearchus to be speaking the truth, and he rejoined: "Then
are not those worthy of the worst         24 penalties who, in spite of all that exists to
cement our friendship, endeavour by slander to make us enemies?" "Even so," replied Tissaphernes,
"and if your generals and captains care to come in some open and public way, I will name to
you those who tell me that you are plotting against me and the army under me." "Good," replied
Clearchus. "I will bring all, and I will show you, on my side, the source from which I derive
my information concerning you."

This is an atom: 
After this conversation Tissaphernes, with kindliest expression, invited Clearchus to remain
with him at the time, and entertained him at dinner. Next day Clearchus returned to the camp,
and made no secret of his persuasion that he at any rate stood high in the affections of Tissaphernes,
and he reported what he had said, insisting that those invited ought to go to Tissaphernes,
and that any Hellene convicted of calumnious language ought to be punished, not only as traitors
themselves, but as disaffected to their fellow-countrymen. The slanderer and traducer was Menon;
so, at any rate, he suspected, because he knew that he had had meetings with Tissaphernes whilst
he was with Ariaeus, and was factiously opposed to himself, plotting how to win over the whole
army to him, as a means of winning the good graces of Tissaphernes. But Clearchus wanted the
entire army to give its mind to no one else, and that refractory people should be put out of
the way. Some of the soldiers protested: the captains and generals had better not all go; it
was better not to put too much confidence in Tissaphernes. But Clearchus insisted so strongly
that finally it was arranged for five generals to go and twenty captains. These were accompanied
by about two hundred of the other soldiers, who took the opportunity of marketing.

This is an atom: 
On arrival at the doors of Tissaphernes's quarters the generals were summoned inside. They
were Proxenus the Boeotian, Menon the Thessalian, Agias the Arcadian, Clearchus the Laconian,
and Socrates the Achaean; while the captains remained at the doors. Not long after that, at
one and the same signal, those within were seized and those without cut down; after which some
of the barbarian horsemen galloped over the plain, killing every Hellene they encountered,
bond or free.   32 The Hellenes, as they looked from the camp, viewed that strange horsemanship
with surprise, and could not explain to themselves what it all meant, until Nicarchus the Arcadian
came tearing along for bare life with a wound in the belly, and clutching his protruding entrails
in his hands. He told them all that had happened. Instantly the Hellenes ran to their arms,
one and all, in utter consternation, and fully expecting that the enemy would instantly be
down upon the camp. However, they did not all come; only Ariaeus came, and Artaozus and Mithridates,
who were Cyrus's most faithful friends; but the interpreter of the Hellenes said he saw and
recognised the brother of Tissaphernes also with them. They had at their back other Persians
also, armed with cuirasses, as many as three hundred. As soon as they were within a short distance,
they bade any general or captain of the Hellenes who might be there to approach and hear a
message from the king. After this, two Hellene generals went out with all precaution. These
were Cleanor the Orchomenian (3), and Sophaenetus the Stymphalion, attended by Xenophon the
Athenian, who went to learn news of Proxenus. Cheirisophus was at the time away in a village
with a party gathering provisions. As soon as they had halted within earshot, Ariaeus said:
"Hellenes, Clearchus being shown to have committed perjury and to have broken the truce, has
suffered the penalty, and he is dead; but Proxenus and Menon, in return for having given information
of his treachery, are in high esteem and honour. As to yourselves, the king demands your arms.
He claims them as his, since they belonged to Cyrus, who was his slave." To this the Hellenes
made answer by the mouth of Cleanor of Orchomenus, their spokesman, who said, addressing Ariaeus:
"Thou villain, Ariaeus, and you the rest of you, who were Cyrus's friends, have you no shame
before God or man, first to swear to us that you have the same friends and the same enemies
as we ourselves, and then to turn and betray us, making common cause with Tissaphernes, that
most impious and villainous of men? With him you have murdered the very men to whom you gave
your solemn word and oath, and to the rest of us turned traitors; and, having so done,   39
you join hand with our enemies to come against us." Ariaeus answered: "There is no doubt but
that Clearchus has been known for some time to harbour designs against Tissaphernes and Orontas,
and all of us who side with them." Taking up this assertion, Xenophon said: "Well, then, granting
that Clearchus broke the truce contrary to our oaths, he has his deserts, for perjurers deserve
to perish; but where are Proxenus and Menon, our generals and your good friends and benefactors,
as you admit? Send them back to us. Surely, just because they are friends of both parites,
they will try to give us the best advice for you and for us."

This is an atom: 
At this, the Asiatics stood discussing with one another for a long while, and then they went
away without vouchsafing a word.

This is an atom: 
VI

This is an atom: 
The generals who were thus seized were taken up to the king and there   1 decapitated. The
first of these, Clearchus, was a thorough soldier, and a true lover of fighting. This is the
testimony of all who knew him intimately. As long as the war between the Lacedaemonians and
Athenians lasted, he could find occupation at home; but after the peace, he persuaded his own
city that the Thracians were injuring the Hellenes, and having secured his object, set sail,
empowered by the ephorate to make war upon the Thracians north of the Chersonese and Perinthus.
But he had no sooner fairly started than, for some reason or other, the ephors changed their
minds, and endeavoured to bring him back again from the isthmus. Thereupon he refused further
obedience, and went off with sails set for the Hellespont. In consequence he was condemned
to death by the Spartan authorities for disobedience to orders; and now, finding himself an
exile, he came to Cyrus. Working on the feelings of that prince, in language described elsewhere,
he received from his entertainer a present of ten thousand darics. Having got this money, he
did not sink into a life of ease and indolence, but collected an army with it, carried on war
against the Thracians, and    5 conquered them in battle, and from that date onwards harried
and plundered them with war incessantly, until Cyrus wanted his army; whereupon he at once
went off, in hopes of finding another sphere of warfare in his company.

This is an atom: 
These, I take it, were the characteristic acts of a man whose affections are set on warfare.
When it is open to him to enjoy peace with honour, no shame, no injury attached, still he prefers
war; when he may live at home at ease, he insists on toil, if only it may end in fighting;
when it is given to him to keep his riches without risk, he would rather lessen his fortune
by the pastime of battle. To put it briefly, war was his mistress; just as another man will
spend his fortune on a favourite, or to gratify some pleasure, so he chose to squander his
substance on soldiering.

This is an atom: 
But if the life of a soldier was a passion with him, he was none the less a soldier born, as
herein appears; danger was a delight to him; he courted it, attacking the enemy by night or
by day; and in difficulties he did not lose his head, as all who ever served in a campaign
with him would with one consent allow. A good solder! the question arises, Was he equally good
as a commander? It must be admitted that, as far as was compatible with his quality of temper,
he was; none more so. Capable to a singular degree of devising how his army was to get supplies,
and of actually getting them, he was also capable of impressing upon those about him that Clearchus
must be obeyed; and that he brought about by the very hardness of his nature. With a scowling
expression and a harshly-grating voice, he chastised with severity, and at times with such
fury, that he was sorry afterwards himself for what he had done. Yet it was not without purpose
that he applied the whip; he had a theory that there was no good to be got out of an unchastened
army. A saying of his is recorded to the effect that the soldier who is to mount guard and
keep his hands off his friends, and be ready to dash without a moment's hesitation against
the foe--must fear his commander more than the enemy. Accordingly, in any strait, this was
the man whom the soldiers were eager to obey, and they would have no other in his place. The
11 cloud which lay upon his brow, at those times lit up with brightness; his face became radiant,
and the old sternness was so charged with vigour and knitted strength to meet the foe, that
it savoured of salvation, not of cruelty. But when the pinch of danger was past, and it was
open to them to go and taste subordination under some other officer, many forsook him. So lacking
in grace of manner was he; but was ever harsh and savage, so that the feeling of the soldiers
towards him was that of schoolboys to a master. In other words, though it was not his good
fortune ever to have followers inspired solely by friendship or goodwill, yet those who found
themselves under him, either by State appointment or through want, or other arch necessity,
yielded him implicit obedience. From the moment that he led them to victory, the elements which
went to make his soldiers efficient were numerous enough. There was the feeling of confidence
in facing the foe, which never left them, and there was the dread of punishment at his hands
to keep them orderly. In this way and to this extent he knew how to rule; but to play a subordinate
part himself he had no great taste; so, at any rate, it was said. At the time of his death
he must have been about fifty years of age.

This is an atom: 
Proxenus, the Boeotian, was of a different temperament. It had been the dream of his boyhood
to become a man capable of great achievements. In obedience to this passionate desire it was,
that he paid his fee to Gorgias of Leontini (1). After enojoying that teacher's society, he
flattered himself that he must be at once qualified to rule; and while he was on friendly terms
with the leaders of the age, he was not to be outdone in reciprocity of service (2). In this
mood he  17 threw himself into the projects of Cyrus, and in return expected to derive from
this essay the reward of a great name, large power, and wide wealth. But for all that he pitched
his hopes so high, it was none the less evident that he would refuse to gain any of the ends
he set before him wrongfully. Righteously and honourably he would obtain them, if he might,
or else forego them. As a commander he had the art of leading gentlemen, but he failed to inspire
adequately either respect for himself or fear in the soldiers under him. Indeed, he showed
a more delicate regard for his soldiers than his subordinates for him, and he was indisputably
more apprehensive of incurring their hatred than they were of losing their fidelity. The one
thing needful to real and recognised generalship was, he thought, to praise the virtuous and
to withhold praise from the evildoer. It can be easily understood, then, that of those who
were brought in contact with him, the good and noble indeed were his well-wishers; but he laid
himself open to the machinations of the base, who looked upon him as a person to be dealt with
as they liked. At the time of his death he was only thirty years of age.

This is an atom: 
(1) The famous rhetorician of Leontini, 485-380 B.C. His fee was 100
    minae.

This is an atom: 
(2) Proxenus, like Cyrus, is to some extent a prototype of the Cyrus
    of the "Cyropaedia." In other words, the author, in delineating
    the portrait of his ideal prince, drew from the recollection of
    many princely qualities observed by him in the characters of many
    friends. Apart from the intrinsic charm of the story, the
    "Anabasis" is interesting as containing the raw material of
    experience and reflection which "this young scholar or
    philosopher," our friend, the author, will one day turn to
    literary account.

This is an atom: 
As to Menon the Thessalian (3), the mainspring of his action was obvious; what he sought after
insatiably was wealth. Rule he sought after only as a stepping-stone to larger spoils. Honours
and high estate he craved for simply that he might extend the area of his gains; and if he
studied to be on friendly terms with the powerful, it was in order that he might commit wrong
with impunity. The landscape, as they advanced, became waster and more wild, until nothing
but heath and rock encumbered the side of the valley.

This is an atom: 
"Is the place still distant?" said Morton. "Nearly a mile off," answered the girl. "We'll
be there belive."
"And do you often go this wild journey, my little maid?"
"When grannie sends me wi' milk and meal to the Linn," answered the child.

This is an atom: 
"And are you not afraid to travel so wild a road alone?"
"Hout na, sir," replied the guide; "nae living creature wad touch sic a bit thing as I am, and
grannie says we need never fear onything else when we are doing a gude turn."
"Strong in innocence as in triple mail!" said Morton to himself, and followed her steps in
silence.

This is an atom: 
They soon came to a decayed thicket, where brambles and thorns supplied the room of the oak
and birches of which it had once consisted. Here the guide turned short off the open heath,
and, by a sheep-track, conducted Morton to the brook. A hoarse and sullen roar had in part
prepared him for the scene which presented itself, yet it was not to be viewed without surprise
and even terror.

This is an atom: 
When he emerged from the devious path which conducted him through
    the thicket, he found himself placed on a ledge of
    flat rock projecting over one side of a chasm not less than
    a hundred feet deep, where the dark mountain-stream made a decided
and rapid shoot over the precipice, and was swallowed up by a deep,
black, yawning gulf.

This is an atom: 
The eye in vain strove to see the bottom of the fall; it could catch but one sheet of foaming uproar
and sheer descent, until the view was obstructed by the proecting crags which enclosed the
bottom of the waterfall, and hid from sight the dark pool which received its tortured waters;
far beneath, at the distance of perhaps a quarter of a mile, the eye caught the winding of
the stream as it emerged into a more open course. But, for that distance, they were lost to
sight as much as if a cavern had been arched over them; and indeed the steep and projecting
ledges of rock through which they wound their way in darkness were very nearly closing and
over-roofing their course.

This is an atom: 
While Morton gazed at this scene of tumult, which seemed, by the surrounding thickets and the
clefts into which the waters descended, to seek to hide itself
from every eye, his little attendant as she stood beside him on the
platform of rock which commanded the best view of the fall, pulled
him by the sleeve, and said, in a tone which he could not hear
without stooping his ear near the speaker, "Hear till him!

This is an atom: 
Eh! hear till him!"
Morton listened more attentively; and out of the very abyss into which the brook fell, and amidst
the turnultuary sounds of the cataract, thought he could distinguish shouts, screams, and
even articulate words, as if the tortured demon of the stream had
been mingling his complaints with the roar of his broken waters.

This is an atom: 
"This is the way," said the little girl; "follow me, gin ye please,
sir, but tak tent to your feet;" and, with the daring agility which
custom had rendered easy, she vanished from the platform on which
she stood, and, by notches and slight projections in the rock,
scrambled down its face into the chasm which it overhung.

This is an atom: 
Steady, bold, and active, Morton hesitated not to follow her;
but the necessary attention to secure his hold and footing
in a descent where both foot and hand were needful for
security, prevented him from looking around him, till,
having descended nigh twenty feet, and being sixty
or seventy above the pool which received the fall, his guide made
a pause, and he again found himself by her side in a situation that
appeared equally romantic and precarious.

This is an atom: 
They were nearly opposite to the waterfall, and in point of level
situated at about one-quarter's depth from the point of the cliff
over which it thundered, and three-fourths of the height above the
dark, deep, and restless pool which received its fall.

This is an atom: 
Both these tremendous points--the first shoot, namely, of the yet unbroken stream, and the deep
and sombre abyss into which it was emptied--were full before him, as well as the whole continuous
stream of billowy froth, which, dashing from the one, was eddying and boiling in the other. They
were so near this grand phenomenon that they were covered with its spray, and well-nigh
deafened by the incessant roar. But crossing in the very front of the fall, and at scarce
three yards distance from the cataract, an old oak-tree, flung across the chasm in a manner
that seemed accidental, formed a bridge of fearfully narrow dimensions and uncertain footing.
The upper end of the tree rested on the platform on which they stood; the lower or uprooted
extremity extended behind a projection on the opposite side, and was secured, Morton's eye
could not discover where.

This is an atom: 
From behind the same projection glimmered a strong red light, which, glancing in the waves
of the falling water, and tinging them partially with crimson, had a strange preternatural and
sinister effect when contrasted with the beams of the rising sun, which glanced on the first
broken waves of the fall, though even its meridian splendour could not gain the third of its full
depth.

This is an atom: 
When he had looked around him for a moment, the girl again pulled his sleeve, and, pointing to
the oak and the projecting point beyond it (for hearing speech was now out of the question), indicated
that there lay his farther passage.

This is an atom: 
Morton gazed at her with surprise; for although he well knew that
the persecuted Presbyterians had in the preceding reigns sought
refuge among dells and thickets, caves and cataracts, in spots the
most extraordinary and secluded; although he had heard of the
champions of the Covenant, who had long abidden beside Dobs-lien
on the wild heights of Polmoodie, and others who had been concealed
in the yet more terrific cavern called Creehope-linn, in the parish
of Closeburn,--yet his imagination had never exactly figured out
the horrors of such a residence, and he was surprised how the strange
and romantic scene which he now saw had remained concealed from
him, while a curious investigator of such natural phenomena.

This is an atom: 
But he readily conceived that, lying in a remote and wild district, and
    being destined as a place of concealment to the persecuted
    preachers and professors of nonconformity, the secret of its existence
    was carefully preserved by the few shepherds to whom it might be
    known. As, breaking from these meditations, he began to consider
    how he should traverse the doubtful and terrific bridge,
    which, skirted by the cascade, and rendered wet and slippery by
    its constant drizzle, traversed the chasm above sixty feet from
the bottom of the fall, his guide, as if to give him courage, tript
over and back without the least hesitation.

This is an atom: 
Envying for a moment the little bare feet which caught a safer hold of the rugged side of
the oak than he could pretend to with his heavy boots, Morton nevertheless resolved to attempt
the passage, and, fixing his eye firm on a stationary object on the other side, without allowing
his head to become giddy, or his attention to be distracted by the flash, the foam, and the
roar of the waters around him, he strode steadily and safely along the uncertain bridge, and
reached the mouth of a small cavern on the farther side of the torrent. Here he paused; for a
light, proceeding from a fire of red-hot charcoal, permitted him to see the interior of the
cave, and enabled him to contemplate the appearance of its inhabitant, by whom he himself could
not be so readily distinguished, being concealed by the shadow of the rock. What he observed
would by no means have encouraged a less determined man to proceed with the task which he had
undertaken.

This is an atom: 
Burley, only altered from what he had been formerly by the addition of a grisly beard, stood
in the midst of the cave, with his clasped Bible in one hand, and his drawn sword in the
other.
His figure, dimly ruddied by the light of the red charcoal, seemed that of a fiend in the lurid
atmosphere of Pandemonium, and his gestures and words, as far as they could be heard, seemed
equally violent and irregular. All alone, and in a place of almost unapproachable seclusion, his
demeanour was that of a man who strives for life and death with a mortal enemy. "Ha!
ha!--there--there!" he exclaimed, accompanying each word with a thrust, urged with his whole
force against the impassible and empty air, "Did I not tell thee so?--I have resisted, and
thou fleest from me!

This is an atom: 
--Coward as thou art, come in all thy terrors; come with mine own evil deeds, which render
thee most terrible of all,--there is enough betwixt the boards of this book to rescue me!--What
mutterest thou of grey hairs? It was well done to slay him,--the more ripe the corn, the
readier for the sickle.-- Art gone? Art gone?--I have ever known thee but a coward--ha! ha! ha!"

This is an atom: 
With these wild exclamations he sunk the point of his sword, and remained standing still in
the same posture, like a maniac whose fit is over.

This is an atom: 
"The dangerous time is by now," said the little girl who had followed;
"it seldom lasts beyond the time that the sun's ower the hill; ye
may gang in and speak wi' him now.

This is an atom: 
I'll wait for you at the other side of the linn; he canna bide to see twa folk at anes."
Slowly and cautiously, and keeping constantly upon his guard, Morton presented himself to the
view of his old associate in command.

This is an atom: 
"What! comest thou again when thine hour is over?" was his first exclamation; and flourishing
his sword aloft, his countenance assumed an expression in which ghastly terror seemed mingled
with the rage of a demoniac.

This is an atom: 
"I am come, Mr.

This is an atom: 
Balfour," said Morton, in a steady and composed tone, "to renew an acquaintance which has
been broken off since the fight of Bothwell Bridge."
As soon as Burley became aware that Morton was before him in person,--an idea which he caught with
marvellous celerity,--he at once exerted that mastership over his heated and enthusiastic
imagination, the power of enforcing which was a most striking part
of his extraordinary character.

This is an atom: 
He sunk his sword-point at once, and as he stole it composedly into the scabbard, he muttered
something of the damp and cold which sent an old soldier to his fencing exercise, to prevent his
blood from chilling. This done, he proceeded in the cold, determined manner which was peculiar
to his ordinary discourse:--
"Thou hast tarried long, Henry Morton, and hast not come to the vintage before the twelfth
hour has struck. Art thou yet willing to take the right hand of fellowship, and be one with
those who look not to thrones or dynasties, but to the rule of Scripture, for their
directions?"
[Illustration: Morton and Black Linn--272]
"I am surprised," said Morton, evading the direct answer to his
question, "that you should have known me after so many years."

This is an atom: 
"The features of those who ought to act with me are engraved on my heart," answered Burley; "and
few but Silas Morton's son durst have followed me into this my castle of retreat. Seest thou
that drawbridge of Nature's own construction?" he added, pointing to the prostrate oak-tree,--"one
spurn of my foot, and it is overwhelmed in the abyss below, bidding foeman on the farther side
stand at defiance, and leaving enemies on this at the mercy of one who never yet met his equal
in single fight."
"Of such defences," said Morton, "I should have thought you would now have had little need."

This is an atom: 
"Little need?" said Burley impatiently. "What little need, when incarnate fiends are combined against
me on earth, and Sathan himself--But it matters not," added he, checking himself. "Enough that
I like my place of refuge, my cave of Adullam, and would not change its rude ribs of limestone rock
for the fair chambers of the castle of the earls of Torwood, with their broad bounds and barony.
Thou, unless the foolish fever-fit be over, mayst think differently."
"It was of those very possessions I came to speak," said Morton; "and I doubt not to find
Mr.
Balfour the same rational and reflecting person which I knew him to be in times when zeal
disunited brethren."
"Ay?" said Burley; "indeed? Is such truly your hope? Wilt thou
express it more plainly?"

This is an atom: 
"In a word, then," said Morton, "you have exercised, by means at which I can guess, a secret,
but most prejudicial, influence over the fortunes of Lady Margaret Bellenden and her
granddaughter, and in favour of that base, oppressive apostate, Basil Olifant, whom the law,
deceived by thy operations, has placed in possession of their lawful property."
"Sayest thou?" said Balfour.

This is an atom: 
"I do say so," replied Morton; "and face to face you will not deny
what you have vouched by your handwriting."

This is an atom: 
"And suppose I deny it not," said Balfour; "and suppose that thy--eloquence were found equal
to persuade me to retrace the steps I have taken on matured resolve,--what will be thy
meed?
Dost thou still hope to possess the fair-haired girl, with her wide and rich inheritance?"

This is an atom: 
"I have no such hope," answered Morton, calmly.

This is an atom: 
"And for whom, then, hast thou ventured to do this great thing,--to seek to rend the prey
from the valiant, to bring forth food from the den of the lion, and to extract sweetness
from the maw of the devourer? For whose sake hast thou undertaken to read this riddle, more
hard than Samson's?"
"For Lord Evandale's and that of his bride," replied Morton, firmly. "Think better of mankind,
Mr. Balfour, and believe there are some who are willing to sacrifice their happiness to
that of others."
"Then, as my soul liveth," replied Balfour, "thou art, to wear beard and back a horse and draw
a sword, the tamest and most gall-less puppet that ever sustained injury unavenged. What!
thou wouldst help that accursed Evandale to the arms of the woman that thou lovest; thou wouldst
endow them with wealth and with heritages, and thou think'st that there lives another man,
offended even more deeply than thou, yet equally cold-livered and mean-spirited, crawling upon the
face of the earth, and hast dared to suppose that one other to be John Balfour?"

This is an atom: 
"For my own feelings," said Morton, composedly, "I am answerable to none but Heaven; to you,
Mr. Balfour, I should suppose it of little consequence whether Basil Olifant or Lord Evandale
possess these estates."
"Thou art deceived," said Burley; "both are indeed in outer darkness, and strangers to the light,
as he whose eyes have never been opened to the day. But this Basil Olifant is a Nabal, a Demas,
a base churl whose wealth and power are at the disposal of him who can threaten to deprive him
of them.

This is an atom: 
He became a professor because he was deprived of these lands of Tillietudlem; he turned a
papist to obtain possession of them; he called himself an Erastian, that he might not again lose
them; and he will become what I list while I have in my power the document that may deprive
him of them.

This is an atom: 
These lands are a bit between his jaws and a hook in his nostrils, and the rein and the line are in
my hands to guide them as I think meet; and his they shall therefore be, unless I had assurance
of bestowing them on a sure and sincere friend. But Lord Evandale is a malignant, of heart
like flint, and brow like adamant; the goods of the world fall on him like leaves on the
frost-bound earth, and unmoved he will see them whirled off by the first wind. The heathen
virtues of such as he are more dangerous to us than the sordid cupidity of those who, governed
by their interest, must follow where it leads, and who, therefore, themselves the slaves of
avarice, may be compelled to work in the vineyard, were it but to earn the wages of sin."
"This might have been all well some years since," replied Morton, "and I could understand your argument,
although I could never acquiesce in its justice. But at this crisis it seems useless to you to
persevere in keeping up an influence which can no longer be directed to an useful purpose.
The land has peace, liberty, and freedom of conscience,--and what
would you more?"

This is an atom: 
"More!" exclaimed Burley, again unsheathing his sword, with a vivacity which nearly made Morton
start. "Look at the notches upon that weapon they are three in number, are they not?"
"It seems so," answered Morton; "but what of that?"
"The fragment of steel that parted from this first gap rested on the skull of the perjured
traitor who first introduced Episcopacy into Scotland; this second notch was made in the rib-bone
of an impious villain, the boldest and best soldier that upheld the prelatic cause at Drumclog;
this third was broken on the steel head-piece of the captain who defended the Chapel of
Holyrood when the people rose at the Revolution. I cleft him to the teeth, through steel and
bone. It has done great deeds, this little weapon, and each of these blows was a deliverance to
the Church. This sword," he said, again sheathing it, "has yet more to do,--to weed out
this base and pestilential heresy of Erastianism; to vindicate the true liberty of the Kirk in
her purity; to restore the Covenant in its glory,--then let it moulder and rust beside the bones
of its master."
"You have neither men nor means, Mr. Balfour, to disturb the Government as now settled,"
argued Morton; "the people are in general satisfied, excepting only the gentlemen of the
Jacobite interest; and surely you would not join with those who would only use you for their
own purposes?"
"It is they," answered Burley, "that should serve ours. I went to the camp of the malignant
Claver'se, as the future King of Israel sought the land of the Philistines; I arranged with
him a rising; and but for the villain Evandale, the Erastians ere now had been driven from the
West.-- I could slay him," he added, with a vindictive scowl, "were
he grasping the horns of the altar!"

This is an atom: 
He then proceeded in a calmer tone: "If thou, son of mine ancient comrade, were suitor for
thyself to this Edith Bellenden, and wert willing to put thy hand to the great work with
zeal equal to thy courage, think not I would prefer the friendship of Basil Olifant to thine;
thou shouldst then have the means that this document [he produced a parchment] affords to
place her in possession of the lands of her fathers. This have I longed to say to thee ever
since I saw thee fight the good fight so strongly at the fatal Bridge. The maiden loved thee,
and thou her."
Morton replied firmly, "I will not dissemble with you, Mr. Balfour, even to gain a good end.
I came in hopes to persuade you to do a deed of justice to others, not to gain any selfish end
of my own. I have failed; I grieve for your sake more than for the loss which others will
sustain by your injustice."
"You refuse my proffer, then?"

This is an atom: 
said Burley, with kindling eyes.

This is an atom: 
"I do," said Morton. "Would you be really, as you are desirous to be thought, a man of honour
and conscience, you would, regardless of all other considerations, restore that parchment
to Lord Evandale, to be used for the advantage of the lawful heir."
"Sooner shall it perish!" said Balfour; and, casting the deed into the heap of red charcoal
beside him, pressed it down with the heel of his boot.

This is an atom: 
While it smoked, shrivelled, and crackled in the flames, Morton sprung forward to snatch it,
and Burley catching hold of him, a struggle ensued. Both were strong men; but although Morton was
much the more active and younger of the two, yet Balfour was the most powerful, and effectually
prevented him from rescuing the deed until it was fairly reduced
to a cinder.

This is an atom: 
They then quitted hold of each other, and the enthusiast, rendered fiercer by the contest, glared
on Morton with an eye expressive of frantic revenge.

This is an atom: 
"Thou hast my secret," he exclaimed; "thou must be mine, or die!"
"I contemn your threats," said Morton; "I pity you, and leave you." But as he turned to retire,
Burley stept before him, pushed the oak-trunk from its resting place, and as it fell
thundering and crashing into the abyss beneath, drew his sword, and cried out, with a voice that
rivalled the roar of the cataract and the thunder of the falling oak, "Now thou art at bay!
Fight,--yield, or die!" and standing in the mouth of the cavern, he flourished his naked
sword.

This is an atom: 
"I will not fight with the man that preserved my father's life," said Morton. "I have not yet
learned to say the words, 'I yield;' and my life I will rescue as
I best can."
So speaking, and ere Balfour was aware of his purpose, he sprung
past him, and exerting that youthful agility of which he possessed
an uncommon share, leaped clear across the fearful chasm which
divided the mouth of the cave from the projecting rock on the
opposite side, and stood there safe and free from his incensed
enemy. He immediately ascended the ravine, and, as he turned, saw
Burley stand for an instant aghast with astonishment, and then,
with the frenzy of disappointed rage, rush into the interior of his
cavern.
It was not difficult for him to perceive that this unhappy man's
mind had been so long agitated by desperate schemes and sudden
disappointments that it had lost its equipoise, and that there was
now in his conduct a shade of lunacy, not the less striking, from
the vigour and craft with which he pursued his wild designs. Morton
soon joined his guide, who had been terrified by the fall of the
oak. This he represented as accidental; and she assured him, in
return, that the inhabitant of the cave would experience no
inconvenience from it, being always provided with materials to
construct another bridge.
The adventures of the morning were not yet ended. As they approached
the hut, the little girl made an exclamation of surprise at seeing
her grandmother groping her way towards them, at a greater distance
from her home than she could have been supposed capable of
travelling.
"Oh, sir, sir!" said the old woman, when she heard them approach,
"gin e'er ye loved Lord Evandale, help now, or never! God be praised
that left my hearing when he took my poor eyesight! Come this
way,--this way. And oh, tread lightly. Peggy, hinny, gang saddle
the gentleman's horse, and lead him cannily ahint the thorny shaw,
and bide him there."After him Xenophon arose; he was arrayed for war in his bravest apparel (1): "For," said he
to himself, "if the gods grant victory, the finest attire will match with victory best; or
if I must needs die, then for one who has aspired to the noblest, it is well there should be
some outward correspondence between his expectation and his end." He began his speech as follows:
"Cleanor has spoken of the perjury and  8 faithlessness of the barbarians, and you yourselves
know them only too well, I fancy. If then we are minded to enter a second time into terms of
friendship with them, with the experience of what our generals, who in all confidence entrusted
themselves to their power, have suffered, reason would we should feel deep despondency. If,
on the other hand, we purpose to take our good swords in our hands and to inflict punishment
on them for what they have done, and from this time forward will be on terms of downright war
with them, then, God helping, we have many a bright hope of safety." The words were scarcely
spoken when someone sneezed (2), and with one impulse the soldiers bowed in worship; and Xenophon
proceeded: "I propose, sirs, since, even as we spoke of safety, an omen from Zeus the Saviour
has appeared, we vow a vow to sacrifice to the Saviour thank-offerings for safe deliverance,
wheresoever first we reach a friendly country; and let us couple with that vow another of individual
assent, that we will offer to the rest of the gods 'according to our ability.' Let all those
who are in favour of this proposal hold up their hands." They all held up their hands, and
there and then they vowed a vow and chanted the battle hymn. But as soon as these sacred matters
were duly ended, he began once more thus: "I was saying that many and bright are the hopes
we have of safety. First of all, we it is who confirm and ratify the oaths we take by heaven,
but our enemies have taken false oaths and broken the truce, contrary to their solemn word.
This being so, it is but natural that the gods should be opposed to our enemies, but with ourselves
allied; the gods, who are able to make the great ones quickly small, and out of sore perplexity
can save the little ones with ease, what time it pleases them. In the next place, let me recall
to your minds the dangers of our own forefathers, that you may see and  11 know that bravery
is your heirloom, and that by the aid of the gods brave men are rescued even out of the midst
of sorest straits." So was it when the Persians came, and their attendant hosts (3), with a
very great armament, to wipe out Athens from the face of the earth--the men of Athens had the
heart to withstand them and conquered them. Then they vowed to Artemis that for every man they
slew of the enemy, they would sacrifice to the goddess goats so many; and when they could not
find sufficient for the slain, they resolved to offer yearly five hundred; and to this day
they perform that sacrifice. And at a somewhat later date, when Xerxes assembled his countless
hosts and marched upon Hellas, then (4) too our fathers conquered the forefathers of our foes
by land and by sea.

This is an atom: 
(1) So it is said of the Russian General Skobelef, that he had a
    strange custom of going into battle in his cleanest uniform,
    perfumed, and wearing a diamond-hilted sword, "in order that," as
    he said, "he might die in his best attire."

This is an atom: 
(2) For this ancient omen see "Odyssey," xvii. 541: "Even as she
    spake, and Telemachus sneezed loudly, and around the roof rung
    wondrously. And Penelope laughed."... "Dost thou not mark how
    my son has sneezed a blessing on all my words?"

This is an atom: 
(3) See Herod. vi. 114; the allusion is to the invasion of Greeze by
    Datis and Artaphernes, and to their defeat at Marathon, B.C. 490.
    "Heredotus estimates the number of those who fell on the Persian
    side at 6400 men: the number of Athenian dead is accurately known,
    since all were collected for the last solemn obsequies--they were
    192."--Grote, "Hist. of Greece," vol. v. p. 475.

This is an atom: 
(4) Then = at Salamis, B.C. 480, and at Plataea and Mycale, B.C. 479,
    on the same day.

This is an atom: 
"And proofs of these things are yet to be seen in trophies; but the greatest witness of all
is the freedom of our cities--the liberty of that land in which you were born and bred. For
you call no man master or lord; you bow your heads to none save to the gods alone. Such were
your forefathers, and their sons are ye. Think not I am going to say that you put to shame
in any way your ancestry--far from it. Not many days since, you too were drawn up in battle
face to face with these true descendants of their ancestors, and by the help of heaven you
conquered them, though they many times outnumbered you. At that time, it was to win a throne
for Cyrus that you showed your bravery; to-day, when the struggle is for your own salvation,
what is more natural than that you should show yourselves braver and more zealous still. Nay,
it is very meet and right that you should be more undaunted still to-day to face the foe. The
other day, though you had not tested them, and before your eyes lay their immeasurable host,
you had the heart to go against them with the spirit of your fathers. To-day you have made
16 trial of them, and knowing that, however many times your number, they do not care to await
your onset, what concern have you now to be afraid of them?

This is an atom: 
"Nor let any one suppose that herein is a point of weakness, in that Cyrus's troops, who before
were drawn up by your side, have now deserted us, for they are even worse cowards still than
those we worsted. At any rate they have deserted us, and sought refuge with them. Leaders of
the forlorn hope of flight--far better is it to have them brigaded with the enemy than shoulder
to shoulder in our ranks. But if any of you is out of heart to think that we have no cavalry,
while the enemy have many squadrons to command, lay to heart this doctrine, that ten thousand
horse only equal ten thousand men upon their backs, neither less nor more. Did any one ever
die in battle from the bite or kick of a horse? It is the men, the real swordsmen, who do whatever
is done in battles. In fact we, on our stout shanks, are better mounted than those cavalry
fellows; there they hang on to their horses' necks in mortal dread, not only of us, but of
falling off; while we, well planted upon earth, can deal far heavier blows to our assailants,
and aim more steadily at who we will. There is one point, I admit, in which their cavalry have
the whip-hand of us; it is safer for them than it is for us to run away.

This is an atom: 
"May be, however, you are in good heart about the fighting, but annoyed to think that Tissaphernes
will not guide us any more, and that the king will not furnish us with a market any longer.
Now, consider, is it better for us to have a guide like Tissaphernes, whom we know to be plotting
against us, or to take our chance of the stray people whom we catch and compel to guide us,
who will know that any mistake made in leading us will be a sad mistake for their own lives?
Again, is it better to be buying provisions in a market of their providing, in scant measure
and at high prices, without even the money to pay for them any longer; or, by right of conquest,
to help ourselves, applying such measure as suits our fancy best?

This is an atom: 
"Or again, perhaps you admit that our present position is not without its advantages, but you
feel sure that the rivers are a difficulty, and think that you were never more taken in than
when you crossed       22 them; if so, consider whether, after all, this is not perhaps the
most foolish thing which the barbarians have done. No river is impassable throughout; whatever
difficulties it may present at some distance from its source, you need only make your way up
to the springhead, and there you may cross it without wetting more than your ankles. But, granted
that the rivers do bar our passage, and that guides are not forthcoming, what care we? We need
feel no alarm for all that. We have heard of the Mysians, a people whom we certainly cannot
admit to be better than ourselves; and yet they inhabit numbers of large and prosperous cities
in the king's own country without asking leave. The Pisidians are an equally good instance,
or the Lycaonians. We have seen with our own eyes how they fare: seizing fortresses down in
the plains, and reaping the fruits of these men's territory. As to us, I go so far as to assert,
we ought never to have let it be seen that we were bent on getting home: at any rate, not so
soon; we should have begun stocking and furnishing ourselves, as if we fully meant to settle
down for life somewhere or other hereabouts. I am sure that the king would be thrice glad to
give the Mysians as many guides as they like, or as many hostages as they care to demand, in
return for a safe conduct out of his country; he would make carriage roads for them, and if
they preferred to take their departure in coaches and four, he would not say them nay. So too,
I am sure, he would be only too glad to accommodate us in the same way, if he saw us preparing
to settle down here. But, perhaps, it is just as well that we did not stop; for I fear, if
once we learn to live in idleness and to batten in luxury and dalliance with these tall and
handsome Median and Persian women and maidens, we shall be like the Lotus-eaters (5), and forget
the road home altogether.

This is an atom: 
(5) See "Odyssey," ix. 94, "ever feeding on the Lotus and forgetful of
    returning."

This is an atom: 
"It seems to me that it is only right, in the first instance, to make an effort to return to
Hellas and to revisit our hearths and homes, if only to prove to other Hellenes that it is
their own faults if they are poor and needy (6), seeing it is in their power to give to those
26 now living a pauper life at home a free passage hither, and convert them into well-to-do
burghers at once. Now, sirs, is it not clear that all these good things belong to whoever has
strength to hold them?

This is an atom: 
(6) Here seems to be the germ--unless, indeed, the thought had been
    conceived above--here at any rate the first conscious expression
    of the colonisation scheme, of which we shall hear more below, in
    reference to Cotyora; the Phasis; Calpe. It appears again fifty
    years later in the author's pamphlet "On Revenues," chapters i.
    and vi. For the special evils of the fourth century B.C., and the
    growth of pauperism between B.C. 401 and 338, see Jebb, "Attic
    Orators," vol i. p. 17.

This is an atom: 
"Let us look another matter in the face. How are we to march most safely? or where blows are
needed, how are we to fight to the best advantage? That is the question.

This is an atom: 
"The first thing which I recommend is to burn the wagons we have got, so that we may be free
to march wherever the army needs, and not, practically, make our baggage train our general.
And, next, we should throw our tents into the bonfire also: for these again are only a trouble
to carry, and do not contribute one grain of good either for fighting or getting provisions.
Further, let us get rid of all superfluous baggage, save only what we require for the sake
of war, or meat and drink, so that as many of us as possible may be under arms, and as few
as possible doing porterage. I need not remind you that, in case of defeat, the owners' goods
are not their own; but if we master our foes, we will make them our baggage bearers.

This is an atom: 
"It only rests for me to name the one thing which I look upon as the greatest of all. You see,
the enemy did not dare to bring war to bear upon us until they had first seized our generals;
they felt that whilst our rulers were there, and we obeyed them, they were no match for us
in war; but having got hold of them, they fully expected that the consequent confusion and
anarchy would prove fatal to us. What follows? This: Officers and leaders ought to be more
vigilant ever than their predecessors; subordinates still more orderly and obedient to those
in command now than even they were to those who are gone. And you should pass a resolution
that, in case of insubordination, any one  31 who stands by is to aid the officer in chastising
the offender. So the enemy will be mightily deceived; for on this day they will behold ten
thousand Clearchuses instead of one, who will not suffer one man to play the coward. And now
it is high time I brought my remarks to an end, for may be the enemy will be here anon. Let
those who are in favour of these proposals confirm them with all speed, that they may be realised
in fact; or if any other course seem better, let not any one, even though he be a private soldier,
shrink from proposing it. Our common safety is our common need."

This is an atom: 
After this Cheirisophus spoke. He said: "If there is anything else to be done, beyond what
Xenophon has mentioned, we shall be able to carry it out presently; but with regard to what
he has already proposed, it seems to me the best course to vote upon the matters at once. Those
who are in favour of Xenophon's proposals, hold up their hands." They all held them up. Xenophon
rose again and said: "Listen, sirs, while I tell you what I think we have need of besides.
It is clear that we must march where we can get provisions. Now, I am told there are some splendid
villages not more than two miles and a half distant. I should not be surprised, then, if the
enemy were to hang on our heels and dog us as we retire, like cowardly curs which rush out
at the passer-by and bite him if they can, but when you turn upon them they run away. Such
will be their tactics, I take it. It may be safer, then, to march in a hollow square, so as
to place the baggage animals and our mob of sutlers in greater security. It will save time
to make the appointments at once, and to settle who leads the square and directs the vanguard;
who will take command of the two flanks, and who of the rearguard; so that, when the enemy
appears, we shall not need to deliberate, but can at once set in motion the machinery in existence.

This is an atom: 
"If any one has any better plan, we need not adopt mine; but if not, suppose Cheirisophus takes
the lead, as he is a Lacedaemonian, and the two eldest generals take in charge the two wings
respectively, whilst Timasion and I, the two youngest, will for the present guard the rear.
37 For the rest, we can but make experiment of this arrangement, and alter it with deliberation,
as from time to time any improvement suggests itself. If any one has a better plan to propose,
let him do so."... No dissentient voice was heard. Accordingly he said: "Those in favour of
this resolution, hold up their hands." The resolution was carried. "And now," said he, "it
would be well to separate and carry out what we have decreed. If any of you has set his heart
on seeing his friends again, let him remember to prove himself a man; there is no other way
to achieve his heart's wish. Or is mere living an object with any of you, strive to conquer;
if to slay is the privilege of victory, to die is the doom of the defeated. Or perhaps to gain
money and wealth is your ambition, strive again for mastery; have not conquerors the double
gain of keeping what is their own, whilst they seize the possessions of the vanquished?"

This is an atom: 
III

This is an atom: 
The speaking was ended; they got up and retired; then they burnt the    1 wagons and the tents,
and after sharing with one another what each needed out of their various superfluities, they
threw the remnant into the fire. Having done that, they proceeded to make their breakfasts.
While they were breakfasting, Mithridates came with about thirty horsemen, and summoning the
generals within earshot, he thus addressed them: "Men of Hellas, I have been faithful to Cyrus,
as you know well, and to-day I am your well-wisher; indeed, I am here spending my days in great
fear: if then I could see any salutory course in prospect, I should be disposed to join you
with all my retainers. Please inform me, then, as to what you propose, regarding me as your
friend and well-wisher, anxious only to pursue his march in your company." The generals held
council, and resolved to give the following answer, Cheirisophus acting as spokesman: "We have
resolved to make our way through the country, inflicting the least possible damage, provided
we are allowed a free passage homewards; but if any one tries to hinder    3 us, he will have
to fight it out with us, and we shall bring all the force in our power to bear." Thereat Mithridates
set himself to prove to them that their deliverance, except with the king's good pleasure,
was hopeless. Then the meaning of his mission was plain. He was an agent in disguise; in fact,
a relation of Tissaphernes was in attendance to keep a check on his loyalty. After that, the
generals resolved that it would be better to proclaim open war, without truce or herald, as
long as they were in the enemy's country; for they used to come and corrupt the soldiers, and
they were even successful with one officer--Nicarchus (1), an Arcadian, who went off in the
night with about twenty men.

This is an atom: 
(1) Can this be the same man whose escape is so graphically described
    above?

This is an atom: 
After this, they breakfasted and crossed the river Zapatas, marching in regular order, with
the beasts and mob of the army in the middle. They had not advanced far on their route when
Mithridates made his appearance again, with about a couple of hundred horsemen at his back,
and bowmen and slingers twice as many, as nimble fellows as a man might hope to see. He approached
the Hellenes as if he were friendly; but when they had got fairly to close quarters, all of
a sudden some of them, whether mounted or on foot, began shooting with their bows and arrows,
and another set with slings, wounding the men. The rearguard of the Hellenes suffered for a
while severely without being able to retaliate, for the Cretans had a shorter range than the
Persians, and at the same time, being light-armed troops, they lay cooped up within the ranks
of the heavy infantry, while the javelin men again did not shoot far enough to reach the enemy's
slingers. This being so, Xenophon thought there was nothing for it but to charge, and charge
they did; some of the heavy and light infantry, who were guarding the rear, with him; but for
all their charging they did not catch a single man.

This is an atom: 
The dearth of cavalry told against the Hellenes; nor were their infantry able to overhaul the
enemy's infantry, with the long start they had, and considering the shortness of the race,
for it was out of the question to pursue them far from the main body of the army. On the  10
other hand, the Asiatic cavalry, even while fleeing, poured volleys of arrows behind their
backs, and wounded the pursuers; while the Hellenes must fall back fighting every step of the
way they had measured in the pursuit; so that by the end of that day they had not gone much
more than three miles; but in the late afternoon they reached the villages.

This is an atom: 
Here there was a return of the old despondency. Cheirisophus and the eldest of the generals
blamed Xenophon for leaving the main body to give chase and endangering himself thereby, while
he could not damage the enemy one whit the more. Xenophon admitted that they were right in
blaming him: no better proof of that was wanted than the result. "The fact is," he added, "I
was driven to pursue; it was too trying to look on and see our men suffer so badly, and be
unable to retaliate. However, when we did charge, there is no denying the truth of what you
say; we were not a whit more able to injure the enemy, while we had considerable difficulty
in beating a retreat ourselves. Thank heaven they did not come upon us in any great force,
but were only a handful of men; so that the injury they did us was not large, as it might have
been; and at least it has served to show us what we need. At present the enemy shoot and sling
beyond our range, so that our Cretan archers are no match for them; our hand-throwers cannot
reach as far; and when we pursue, it is not possible to push the pursuit to any great distance
from the main body, and within the short distance no foot-soldier, however fleet of foot, could
overtake another foot-soldier who has a bow-shot the start of him. If, then, we are to exclude
them from all possibility of injuring us as we march, we must get slingers as soon as possible
and cavalry. I am told there are in the army some Rhodians, most of whom, they say, know how
to sling, and their missile will reach even twice as far as the Persian slings (which, on account
of their being loaded with stones as big as one's fist, have a comparatively short range; but
the Rhodians are skilled in the use of leaden bullets (2)). Suppose, then, we investigate and
18 find out first of all who among them possess slings, and for these slings offer the owner
the money value; and to another, who will plait some more, hand over the money price; and for
a third, who will volunteer to be enrolled as a slinger, invent some other sort of privilege,
I think we shall soon find people to come forward capable of helping us. There are horses in
the army I know; some few with myself, others belonging to Clearchus's stud, and a good many
others captured from the enemy, used for carrying baggage. Let us take the pick of these, supplying
their places by ordinary baggage animals, and equipping the horses for cavalry. I should not
wonder if our troopers gave some annoyance to these fugitives."

This is an atom: 
(2) These words sound to me like an author's note, parenthetically,
    and perhaps inadvertently, inserted into the text. It is an
    "aside" to the reader, which in a modern book would appear as a
    footnote.

This is an atom: 
These proposals were carried, and that night two hundred slingers were enrolled, and next day
as many as fifty horse and horsemen passed muster as duly qualified; buff jackets and cuirasses
were provided for them, and a commandant of cavalry appointed to command--Lycius, the son of
Polystratus, by name, an Athenian.

This is an atom: 
IV

This is an atom: 
That day they remained inactive, but the next they rose earlier than    1 usual, and set out
betimes, for they had a ravine to cross, where they feared the enemy might attack them in the
act of crossing. When they were across, Mithridates appeared again with one thousand horse,
and archers and slingers to the number of four thousand. This whole body he had got by request
from Tissaphernes, and in return he undertook to deliver up the Hellenes to Tissaphernes. He
had grown contemptuous since his late attack, when, with so small a detachment, he had done,
as he thought, a good deal of mischief, without the slightest loss to himself.

This is an atom: 
When the Hellenes were not only right across, but had got about a mile from the ravine, Mithridates
also crossed with his forces. An order had been passed down the lines, what light infantry
and what heavy infantry were to take part in the pursuit; and the cavalry were instructed to
follow up the pursuit with confidence, as a considerable  3 support was in their rear. So,
when Mithridates had come up with them, and they were well within arrow and sling shot, the
bugle sounded the signal to the Hellenes; and immediately the detachment under orders rushed
to close quarters, and the cavalry charged. There the enemy preferred not to wait, but fled
towards the ravine. In this pursuit the Asiatics lost several of their infantry killed, and
of their cavalry as many as eighteen were taken prisoners in the ravine. As to those who were
slain the Hellenes, acting upon impulse, mutilated their bodies, by way of impressing their
enemy with as frightful an image as possible.

This is an atom: 
So fared the foe and so fell back; but the Hellenes, continuing their march in safety for the
rest of that day, reached the river Tigris. Here they came upon a large deserted city, the
name of which was Larissa (1): a place inhabited by the Medes in days of old; the breadth of
its walls was twenty-five feet, and the height of them a hundred, and the circuit of the whole
two parasangs. It was built of clay-bricks, supported on a stone basis twenty feet high. This
city the king of the Persians (2) besieged, what time the Persians strove to snatch their empire
from the Medes, but he could in no wise take it; then a cloud hid the face of the sun and blotted
out the light thereof, until the inhabitants were gone out of the city, and so it was taken.
By the side of this city there was a stone pyramid in breadth a hundred feet, and in height
two hundred feet; in it were many of the barbarians who had fled for refuge from the neighbouring
villages.

This is an atom: 
(1) Larissa, on the side of the modern Nimrud (the south-west corner,
    as is commonly supposed, of Nineveh). The name is said to mean
    "citadel," and is given to various Greek cities (of which several
    occur in Xenophon).

This is an atom: 
(2) I.e. Cyrus the Great.

This is an atom: 
From this place they marched one stage of six parasangs to a great deserted fortress  (which
lay over against the city), and the name of that city was Mespila (3). The Medes once dwelt
in it. The basement was  10 made of polished stone full of shells; fifty feet was the breadth
of it, and fifty feet the height; and on this basement was reared a wall of brick, the breadth
whereof was fifty feet and the height thereof four hundred; and the circuit of the wall was
six parasangs. Hither, as the story goes, Medea (4), the king's wife, betook herself in flight
what time the Medes lost their empire at the hands of the Persians. To this city also the king
of the Pesians laid siege, but could not take it either by length of days or strength of hand.
But Zeus sent amazement on the inhabitants thereof, and so it was taken.

This is an atom: 
(3) Opposite Mosul, the north-west portion of the ancient Nineveh,
    about eighteen miles above Larissa. The circuit of Nineveh is said
    to have been about fifty-six miles. It was overthrown by Cyrus in
    B.C. 558.

This is an atom: 
(4) The wife of Astyages, the last king of Media. Some think "the wall
    of Media" should be "Medea's wall," constructed in the period of
    Queen Nitocris, B.C. 560.

This is an atom: 
From this place they marched one stage--four parasangs. But, while still on this stage, Tissaphernes
made his appearance. He had with him his own cavalry and a force belonging to Orontas, who
had the king's daughter to wife; and there were, moreover, with them the Asiatics whom Cyrus
had taken with him on his march up; together with those whom the king's brother had brought
as a reinforcement to the king; besides those whom Tissaphernes himself had received as a gift
from the king, so that the armament appeared to be very great. When they were close, he halted
some of his regiments at the rear and wheeled others into position on either flank, but hesitated
to attack, having no mind apparently to run any risks, and contenting himself with an order
to his slingers to sling and his archers to shoot. But when the Rhodian slingers and the bowmen
(5), posted at intervals, retaliated, and every shot told (for with the utmost pains to miss
it would have been hard to do so under the circumstanecs), then Tissaphernes with all speed
retired out of range, the other regiments following suit; and for the rest of the day the one
party advanced and the other followed. But now the Asiatics had ceased to be dangerous with
their sharpshooting. For the Rhodians could reach further than the Persian    16 slingers,
or, indeed, than most of the bowmen. The Persian bows are of great size, so that the Cretans
found the arrows which were picked up serviceable, and persevered in using their enemies' arrows,
and practised shooting with them, letting them fly upwards to a great height (6). There were
also plenty of bowstrings found in the villages--and lead, which they turned to account for
their slings. As a result of this day, then, the Hellenes chancing upon some villages had no
sooner encamped than the barbarians fell back, having had distinctly the worst of it in the
skirmishing.

This is an atom: 
(5) The best MSS read {Skuthai}, Scythians; if this is correct, it is
    only the technical name for "archers." Cf. Arrian, "Tact." ii. 13.
    The police at Athens were technically so called, as being composed
    of Scythian slaves. Cf. Aristoph. "Thesm." 1017.

This is an atom: 
(6) I.e., in practising, in order to get the maximum range they let
    fly the arrows, not horizontally, but up into the air. Sir W.
    Raleigh (Hist. of the World, III. x. 8) says that Xenophon
    "trained his archers to short compass, who had been accustomed to
    the point blank," but this is surely not Xenophon's meaning.

This is an atom: 
The next day was a day of inaction: they halted and took in supplies, as there was much corn
in the villages; but on the day following, the march was continued through the plain (of the
Tigris), and Tissaphernes still hung on their skirts with his skirmishers. And now it was that
the Hellenes discovered the defect of marching in a square with an enemy following. As a matter
of necessity, whenever the wings of an army so disposed draw together, either where a road
narrows, or hills close in, or a bridge has to be crossed, the heavy infantry cannot help being
squeezed out of their ranks, and march with difficulty, partly from actual pressure, and partly
from the general confusion that ensues. Or, supposing the wings are again extended, the troops
have hardly recovered from their former distress before they are pulled asunder, and there
is a wide space between the wings, and the men concerned lose confidence in themselves, especially
with an enemy close behind. What happened, when a bridge had to be crossed or other passage
effected, was, that each unit of the force pressed on in anxiety to get over first, and at
these moments it was easy for the enemy to make an attack. The generals accordingly, having
recognised the defect, set about curing it. To do so, they made six lochi, or divisions of
a hundred men apiece, each of which had its own set of captains and under-officers in command
of half and quarter companies.   21 It was the duty of these new companies, during a march,
whenever the flanks needed to close in, to fall back to the rear, so as to disencumber the
wings. This they did by wheeling clear of them. When the sides of the oblong again extended,
they filled up the interstices, if the gap were narrow, by columns of companies, if broader,
by columns of half-companies, or, if broader still, by columns of quarter-companies, so that
the space between was always filled up. If again it were necessary to effect a passage by bridge
or otherwise, there was no confusion, the several companies crossing in turns; or, if the occasion
arose to form in line of battle, these companies came up to the front and fell in (7).

This is an atom: 
(7) In the passage above I have translated {lokhoi} companies, and, as
    usual, {lokhagoi} captains. The half company is technically called
    a pentecostys, and a quarter company an enomoty, and the officers
    in charge of them respectively penteconter and enomotarch. These
    would be equivalent nearly to our subalterns and sergeants, and in
    the evolutions described would act as guides and markers in charge
    of their sections. Grote thinks there were six companies formed on
    each flank--twelve in all. See "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p. 123,
    note (1st ed.)

This is an atom: 
In this way they advanced four stages, but ere the fifth was completed, they came in sight
of a palace of some sort, with villages clustered round it; they could further see that the
road leading to this place pursued its course over high undulating hillocks, the spur of the
mountain range, under which lay the village. These knolls were a welcome sight to the Hellenes,
naturally enough, as the enemy were cavalry. However, when they had issued from the plain and
ascended the first crest, and were in the act of descending it so as to mount the next, at
this juncture the barbarians came upon them. From the high ground down the sheer steep they
poured a volley of darts, slingstones, and arrows, which they discharged "under the lash (8),"
wounding many, until they got the better of the Hellenic light troops, and drove them for shelter
behind the heavy infantry, so that this day that arm was altogether useless, huddling in the
mob of sutlers, both   26 slingers and archers alike.

This is an atom: 
(8) I.e. the Persian leaders were seen flogging their men to the
    attack. Cf. Herod. vii. 22. 3.

This is an atom: 
But when the Hellenes, being so pressed, made an attempt to pursue, they could barely scale
to the summit, being heavy-armed troops, while the enemy as lightly sprung away; and they suffered
similarly in retiring to join the rest of the army. And then, on the second hill, the whole
had to be gone through again; so that when it came to the third hillock, they determined not
to move the main body of troops from their position until they had brought up a squadron of
light infantry from the right flank of the square to a point on the mountain range. When this
detachment were once posted above their pursuers, the latter desisted from attacking the main
body in its descent, for fear of being cut off and finding themselves between two assailants.
Thus the rest of the day they moved on in two divisions: one set keeping to the road by the
hillocks, the other marching parallel on the higher level along the mountains; and thus they
reached the villages and appointed eight surgeons to attend to the many wounded.

This is an atom: 
Here they halted three days for the sake of the wounded chiefly, while a further inducement
was the plentiful supply of provisions which they found, wheat and wine, and large stores of
barley laid up for horses. These supplies had been collected by the ruling satrap of the country.
On the fourth day they began their descent into the plain; but when Tissaphernes overtook them,
necessity taught them to camp in the first village they caught sight of, and give over the
attempt of marching and fighting simultaneously, as so many were hors de combat, being either
on the list of wounded themselves, or else engaged in carrying the wounded, or laden with the
heavy arms of those so occupied. But when they were once encamped, and the barbarians, advancing
upon the village, made an attempt to harass them with their sharp-shooters, the superiority
of the Hellenes was pronounced. To sustain a running fight with an enemy constantly attacking
was one thing; to keep him at arm's length from a fixed base of action another: and the difference
was much in their favour.

This is an atom: 
But when it was late afternoon, the time had come for the enemy to      34 withdraw, since
the habit of the barbarian was never to encamp within seven or eight miles of the Hellenic
camp. This he did in apprehension of a night attack, for a Persian army is good for nothing
at night. Their horses are haltered, and, as a rule, hobbled as well, to prevent their escaping,
as they might if loose; so that, if any alarm occurs, the trooper has to saddle and bridle
his horse, and then he must put on his own cuirass, and then mount--all which performances
are difficult at night and in the midst of confusion. For this reason they always encamped
at a distance from the Hellenes.

This is an atom: 
When the Hellenes perceived that they were preparing to retire, and that the order was being
given, the herald's cry, "Pack up for starting," might be heard before the enemy was fairly
out of earshot. For a while the Asiatics paused, as if unwilling to be gone; but as night closed
in, off they went, for it did not suit their notions of expediency to set off on a march and
arrive by night. And now, when the Hellenes saw that they were really and clearly gone, they
too broke up their camp and pursued their march till they had traversed seven and a half miles.
Thus the distance between the two armies grew to be so great, that the next day the enemy did
not appear at all, nor yet on the third day; but on the fourth the barbarians had pushed on
by a forced night march and occupied a commanding position on the right, where the Hellenes
had to pass. It was a narrow mountain spur (9) overhanging the descent into the plain.

This is an atom: 
(9) Lit. "a mere nail tip."

This is an atom: 
But when Cheirisophus saw that this ridge was occupied, he summoned Xenophon from the rear,
bidding him at the same time to bring up peltasts to the front. That Xenophon hesitated to
do, for Tissaphernes and his whole army were coming up and were well within sight. Galloping
up to the front himself, he asked: "Why do you summon me?" The other answered him: "The reason
is plain; look yonder; this crest which overhangs our descent has been occupied. There is no
passing,     39 until we have dislodged these fellows; why have you not brought up the light
infantry?" Xenophon explained: he had not thought it desirable to leave the rear unprotected,
with an enemy appearing in the field of view. "However, it is time," he added, "to decide how
we are to dislodge these fellows from the crest." At this moment his eye fell on the peak of
the mountain, rising immediately above their army, and he could see an approach leading from
it to the crest in question where the enemy lay. He exclaimed: "The best thing we can do, Cheirisophus,
is to make a dash at the height itself, and with what speed we may. If we take it, the party
in command of the road will never be able to stop. If you like, stay in command of the army,
and I will go; or, if you prefer, do you go to the mountain, and I will stay here."--"I leave
it to you," Cheirisophus answered, "to choose which you like best." Xenophon remarking, "I
am the younger," elected to go; but he stipulated for a detachment from the front to accompany
him, since it was a long way to fetch up troops from the rear. Accordingly Cheirisophus furnished
him with the light infantry from the front, reoccupying their place by those from the centre.
He also gave him, to form part of the detachment, the three hundred of the picked corps (10)
under his own command at the head of the square.

This is an atom: 
(10) Some think that these three hundred are three of the detached
    companies described above; others, that they were a picked corps
    in attendance on the commander-in-chief.

This is an atom: 
They set out from the low ground with all the haste imaginable. But the enemy in position on
the crest no sooner perceived their advance upon the summit of the pass than they themselves
set off full tilt in a rival race for the summit too. Hoarse were the shouts of the Hellenic
troops as the men cheered their companions forwards, and hoarse the answering shouts from the
troops of Tissaphernes, urging on theirs. Xenophon, mounted on his charger, rode beside his
men, and roused their ardour the while. "Now for it, brave sirs; bethink you that this race
is for Hellas!--now or never!--to find your boys, your wives; one small effort, and the rest
of the march we shall pursue in peace, without ever a blow to strike; now for it." But Soteridas
the Sicyonian said: "We are not on equal terms, Xenophon; you are mounted   47 on a horse;
I can hardly get along with my shield to carry;" and he, on hearing the reproach, leapt from
his horse. In another instant he had pushed Soteridas from the ranks, snatched from him his
shield, and begun marching as quickly as he might under the circumstances, having his horseman's
cuirass to carry as well, so that he was sore pressed; but he continued to cheer on the troops:
exhorting those in front to lead on and the men toiling behind to follow up (11). Soteridas
was not spared by the rest of the men. They gave him blows, they pelted him, they showered
him with abuse, till they compelled him to take back his shield and march on; and the other,
remounting, led them on horseback as long as the footing held; but when the ground became too
steep, he left his horse and pressed forward on foot, and so they found themselves on the summit
before the enemy.

This is an atom: 
(11) Some MSS. "and the men behind to pass him by, as he could but ill
    keep up the pace."

This is an atom: 
V

This is an atom: 
There and then the barbarians turned and fled as best they might, and   1 the Hellenes held
the summit, while the troops with Tissaphernes and Ariaeus turned aside and disappeared by
another road. The main body with Cheirisophus made its way down into the plain and encamped
in a village filled with good things of divers sorts. Nor did this village stand alone; there
were others not a few in this plain of the Tigris equally overflowing with plenty. It was now
afternoon; and all of a sudden the enemy came in sight on the plain, and succeeded in cutting
down some of the Hellenes belonging to parties who were scattered over the flat land in quest
of spoil. Indeed, many herds of cattle had been caught whilst being conveyed across to the
other side of the river. And now Tissaphernes and his troops made an attempt to burn the villages,
and some of the Hellenes were disposed to take the matter deeply to heart, being apprehensive
that they might not know where to get provisions if the enemy burnt the villages.

This is an atom: 
Cheirisophus and his men were returning from their sally of defence when Xenophon and his party
descended, and the latter rode along the    4 ranks as the rescuing party came up, and greeted
them thus: "Do you not see, men of Hellas, they admit that the country is now ours; what they
stipulated against our doing when they made the treaty, viz. that we were not to fire the king's
country, they are now themselves doing--setting fire to it as if it were not their own. But
we will be even with them; if they leave provisions for themselves anywhere, there also shall
they see us marching;" and, turning to Cheirisophus, he added: "But it strikes me, we should
sally forth against these incendiaries and protect our country." Cheirisophus retorted: "That
is not quite my view; I say, let us do a little burning ourselves, and they will cease all
the quicker."

This is an atom: 
When they had got back to the villages, while the rest were busy about provisions, the generals
and officers met: and here there was deep despondency. For on the one side were exceedingly
high mountains; on the other a river of such depth that they failed to reach the bottom with
their spears. In the midst of their perplexities, a Rhodian came up with a proposal, as follows:
"I am ready, sirs to carry you across, four thousand heavy infantry at a time; if you will
furnish me with what I need and give me a talent into the bargain for my pains." When asked,
"What shall you need?" he replied: "Two thousand wine-skins. I see there are plenty of sheep
and goats and asses. They have only to be flayed, and their skins inflated, and they will readily
give us a passage. I shall want also the straps which you use for the baggage animals. With
these I shall couple the skins to one another; then I shall moor each skin by attaching stones
and letting them down like anchors into the water. Then I shall carry them across, and when
I have fastened the links at both ends, I shall place layers of wood on them and a coating
of earth on the top of that. You will see in a minute that there's no danger of your drowning,
for every skin will be able to support a couple of men without sinking, and the wood and earth
will prevent your slipping off."

This is an atom: 
The generals thought it a pretty invention enough, but its realisation impracticable, for on
the other side were masses of cavalry posted and ready to bar the passage; who, to begin with,
would not suffer the      12 first detachment of crossers to carry out any item of the programme.

This is an atom: 
Under these circumstances, the next day they turned right about face, and began retracing their
steps in the direction of Babylon to the unburnt villages, having previously set fire to those
they left, so that the enemy did not ride up to them, but stood and stared, all agape to see
in what direction the Hellenes would betake themselves and what they were minded to do. Here,
again, while the rest of the soldiers were busy about provisions, the generals and officers
met in council, and after collecting the prisoners together, submitted them to a cross-examination
touching the whole country round, the names, and so forth, of each district.

This is an atom: 
The prisoners informed them that the regions south, through which they had come, belonged to
the district towards Babylon and Media; the road east led to Susa and Ecbatana, where the king
is said to spend summer and spring; crossing the river, the road west led to Lydia and Ionia;
and the part through the mountains facing towards the Great Bear, led, they said, to the Carduchians
(1). They were a people, so said the prisoners, dwelling up on the hills, addicted to war,
and not subject to the king; so much so that once, when a royal army one hundred and twenty
thousand strong had invaded them, not a man came back, owing to the intricacies of the country.
Occasionally, however, they made truce or treaty with the satrap in the plain, and, for the
nonce, there would be intercourse: "they will come in and out amongst us," "and we will go
in and out amongst them," said the captives.

This is an atom: 
(1) See Dr. Kiepert, "Man. Anc. Geog." (Mr. G. A. Macmillan) iv. 47.
    The Karduchians or Kurds belong by speech to the Iranian stock,
    forming in fact their farthest outpost to the west, little given
    to agriculture, but chiefly to the breeding of cattle. Their name,
    pronounced Kardu by the ancient Syrians and Assyrians, Kordu by
    the Armenians (plural Kordukh), first appears in its narrower
    sense in western literature in the pages of the eye-witness
    Xenophon as {Kardoukhoi}. The Renascence, that great reawakening
    of Hellenism, that irresistible return of humanity to nature and
    to seeing things as they are, which in art, in literature, and in
    physics, produced such splendid fruits, had, like the anterior
    Hellenism of the pagan world, a side of moral weakness and
    of relaxation or insensibility of the moral fibre, which in Italy
    showed itself with the most startling plainness, but which in
France, England, and other countries was very apparent, too.

This is an atom: 
Again this loss of spiritual balance, this exclusive preponderance given to man's perceiving
and knowing side, this unnatural defect of his feeling and acting side, provoked a reaction. Let
us trace that reaction where it most nearly concerns us.

This is an atom: 
Science has now made visible to everybody the great and pregnant elements of difference which
lie in race, and in how signal a manner they make the genius and history of an Indo-European
people vary from those of a Semitic people. Hellenism is of Indo-European growth, Hebraism is of
Semitic growth; and we English, a nation of Indo-European stock, seem to belong naturally to
the movement of Hellenism. But nothing more strongly marks the essential unity of man, than
the affinities we can perceive, in this point or that, between members of one family of peoples
and members of another.

This is an atom: 
And no affinity of this kind is more strongly marked than that
likeness in the strength and prominence of the moral fibre, which,
notwithstanding immense elements of difference, knits in some special
sort the genius and history of us English, and our American descendants
across the Atlantic, to the genius and history of the Hebrew people.

This is an atom: 
Puritanism, which has been so great a power in the English
nation, and in the strongest part of the English nation, was
originally the reaction in the seventeenth century of the
conscience and moral sense of our race, against the moral
indifference and lax rule of conduct which in the sixteenth
century came in with the Renascence. It was a reaction of
Hebraism against Hellenism; and it powerfully manifested
itself, as was natural, in a people with much of what we
call a Hebraizing turn, with a signal affinity for the bent
which, was the master-bent of Hebrew life. Eminently Indo-European
by its _humor_, by the power it shows, through this gift, of
imaginatively acknowledging the multiform aspects of the
problem of life, and of thus getting itself unfixed from its
own over-certainty, of smiling at its own over-tenacity, our
race has yet (and a great part of its strength lies here),
in matters of practical life and moral conduct, a strong share
of the assuredness, the tenacity, the intensity of the
Hebrews. This turn manifested itself in Puritanism, and has
had a great part in shaping our history for the last two
hundred years.
Undoubtedly it checked and changed amongst us that movement
of the Renascence which we see producing in the reign of Elizabeth
such wonderful fruits.

This is an atom: 
Undoubtedly it stopped the prominent rule and direct development
of that order of ideas which we call by the name of Hellenism, and
gave the first rank to a different order of ideas.

This is an atom: 
Apparently, too, as we said of the former defeat of Hellenism, if Hellenism was defeated, this
shows that Hellenism was imperfect, and that its ascendency at that moment would not have
been for the world's good.

This is an atom: 
Yet there is a very important difference between the defeat inflicted on Hellenism by Christianity
eighteen hundred years ago, and the check given to the Renascence by Puritanism. The greatness
of the difference is well measured by the difference in force, beauty, significance, and
usefulness, between primitive Christianity and Protestantism. Eighteen hundred years ago it
was altogether the hour of Hebraism.

This is an atom: 
Primitive Christianity was legitimately and truly the ascendant force in the world at that
time, and the way of mankind's progress lay through its full development.
Another hour in man's development began in the fifteenth century, and the main road of his
progress then lay for a time through Hellenism. Puritanism was no longer the central current
of the world's progress, it was a side stream crossing the central current and checking it.

This is an atom: 
The cross and the check may have been necessary and salutary, but that does not do away with
the essential difference between the main stream of man's advance and a cross or side stream.
For more than two hundred years the main stream of man's advance has moved towards knowing himself
and the world, seeing things as they are, spontaneity of consciousness; the main impulse of
a great part, and that the strongest part, of our nation has been towards strictness of conscience.
They have made the secondary the principal at the wrong moment, and the principal they have at the
wrong moment treated as secondary. This contravention of the natural order has produced, as
such contravention always must produce, a certain confusion and false movement, of which we are
now beginning to feel, in almost every direction, the inconvenience. In all directions our
habitual causes of action seem to be losing efficaciousness, credit, and control, both with others
and even with ourselves. Everywhere we see the beginnings of
confusion, and we want a clue to some sound order and authority.

This is an atom: 
This we can only get by going back upon the actual instincts and forces which rule our life,
seeing them as they really are, connecting them with other instincts and forces, and enlarging
our whole view and rule of life.

This is an atom: 
EQUALITY[459]
When we talk of man's advance towards his full humanity, we think of an advance, not along one line
only, but several. Certain races and nations, as we know, are on
certain lines preëminent and representative.

This is an atom: 
The Hebrew nation was preëminent on one great line. "What nation," it was justly asked by their
lawgiver, "hath statutes and judgments so righteous as the law which I set before you this day?
Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the
nations which shall hear all these statutes and say: Surely this great nation is a wise and
understanding people!" The Hellenic race was preëminent on other lines.
Isocrates[460] could say of Athens: "Our city has left the rest of the world so far behind in
philosophy and eloquence, that those educated by Athens have become the teachers of the rest
of mankind; and so well has she done her part, that the name of Greeks seems no longer to
stand for a race but to stand for intelligence itself, and they who share in our culture are called
Greeks even before those who are merely of our own blood." The power of intellect and science,
the power of beauty, the power of social life and manners,-- these are what Greece so felt,
and fixed, and may stand for. They are great elements in our humanization. The power of
conduct is another great element; and this was so felt and fixed by Israel that we can never
with justice refuse to permit Israel, in spite of all his shortcomings, to stand for it.

This is an atom: 
So you see that in being humanized we have to move along several lines, and that on certain
lines certain nations find their strength and take a lead. We may elucidate the thing yet
further.
Nations now existing may be said to feel or to have felt the power
of this or that element in our humanization so signally that they
are characterized by it.

This is an atom: 
No one who knows this country would deny that it is characterized, in a remarkable degree, by
a sense of the power of conduct.
Our feeling for religion is one part of this; our industry is another. What foreigners so much
remark in us--our public spirit, our love, amidst all our liberty, for public order and for
stability--are parts of it too. Then the power of beauty was so felt by the Italians that
their art revived, as we know, the almost lost idea of beauty, and the serious and successful
pursuit of it. Cardinal Antonelli,[461] speaking to me about the education of the common
people in Rome, said that they were illiterate, indeed, but whoever mingled with them at any
public show, and heard them pass judgment on the beauty or ugliness of what came before
them,--"_e brutto_," "_e bello_,"--would find that their judgment agreed admirably, in general,
with just what the most cultivated people would say. Even at the present time, then, the Italians
are preëminent in feeling the power of beauty.

This is an atom: 
The power of knowledge, in the same way, is eminently an influence with the Germans. This by
no means implies, as is sometimes supposed, a high and fine general culture. What it implies is a
strong sense of the necessity of knowing _scientifically_, as the expression is, the things which
have to be known by us; of knowing them systematically, by the regular and right process, and
in the only real way. And this sense the Germans especially have. Finally, there is the power
of social life and manners. And even the Athenians themselves, perhaps, have hardly felt this power
so much as the French.

This is an atom: 
Voltaire, in a famous passage[462] where he extols the age of Louis the Fourteenth and ranks
it with the chief epochs in the civilization of our race, has to specify the gift bestowed
on us by the age of Louis the Fourteenth, as the age of Pericles, for instance, bestowed on us its
art and literature, and the Italian Renascence its revival of art and literature. And Voltaire
shows all his acuteness in fixing on the gift to name. It is not the sort of gift which we
expect to see named. The great gift of the age of Louis the Fourteenth to the world, says
Voltaire, was this: _l'esprit de société_, the spirit of society, the social spirit. And another
French writer, looking for the good points in the old French nobility, remarks that this at
any rate is to be said in their favor: they established a high and charming ideal of social
intercourse and manners, for a nation formed to profit by such an
ideal, and which has profited by it ever since.

This is an atom: 
And in America, perhaps, we see the disadvantages of having social
equality before there has been any such high standard of social
life and manners formed.

This is an atom: 
We are not disposed in England, most of us, to attach all this importance to social intercourse
and manners. Yet Burke says: "There ought to be a system of manners in every nation which a
well-formed mind would be disposed to relish." And the power of social life and manners is
truly, as we have seen, one of the great elements in our humanization. Unless we have cultivated
it, we are incomplete. The impulse for cultivating it is not, indeed, a moral impulse. It is
by no means identical with the moral impulse to help our neighbor and to do him good. Yet
in many ways it works to a like end. It brings men together, makes them feel the need of one
another, be considerate of one another, understand one another. But, above all things, it is
a promoter of equality. It is by the humanity of their manners that men are made equal. "A man
thinks to show himself my equal," says Goethe, "by being _grob_,--that is to say, coarse and
rude; he does not show himself my equal, he shows himself _grob_." But a community having
humane manners is a community of equals, and in such a community great social inequalities have
really no meaning, while they are at the same time a menace and an embarrassment to perfect
ease of social intercourse. A community with the spirit of society is eminently, therefore, a
community with the spirit of equality. A nation with a genius for society, like the French or
the Athenians, is irresistibly drawn towards equality. From the first moment when the French
people, with its congenital sense for the power of social intercourse and manners, came into
existence, it was on the road to equality.

This is an atom: 
When it had once got a high standard of social manners abundantly
established, and at the same time the natural, material necessity
for the feudal inequality of classes and property pressed upon it
no longer, the French people introduced equality and made the French
Revolution.

This is an atom: 
It was not the spirit of philanthropy which mainly impelled the French to that Revolution,
neither was it the spirit of envy, neither was it the love of abstract ideas, though all these
did something towards it; but what did most was the spirit of society.

This is an atom: 
The well-being of the many comes out more and more distinctly, in proportion as time goes on,
as the object we must pursue.

This is an atom: 
An individual or a class, concentrating their efforts upon their
own well-being exclusively, do but beget troubles both for others
and for themselves also.

This is an atom: 
No individual life can be truly prosperous, passed, as Obermann says, in the midst of men who
suffer; _passée au milieu des générations qui souffrent_. To the noble soul, it cannot be happy;
to the ignoble, it cannot be secure. Socialistic and communistic schemes have generally, however,
a fatal defect; they are content with too low and material a standard of well-being. That
instinct of perfection, which is the master-power in humanity, always rebels at this, and
frustrates the work. Many are to be made partakers of well-being, true; but the ideal of
well-being is not to be, on that account, lowered and coarsened. M. de Laveleye,[463] the
political economist, who is a Belgian and a Protestant, and whose testimony, therefore, we may
the more readily take about France, says that France, being the country of Europe where the
soil is more divided than anywhere except in Switzerland and Norway, is at the same time the
country where material well-being is most widely spread, where wealth has of late years
increased most, and where population is least outrunning the limits, which, for the comfort
and progress of the working classes themselves, seem necessary. This may go for a good deal.
It supplies an answer to what Sir Erskine May[464] says about the bad effects of equality
upon French prosperity. But I will quote to you from Mr.

This is an atom: 
Hamerton[465] what goes, I think, for yet more. Mr. Hamerton is an excellent observer and reporter,
and has lived for many years in France. He says of the French peasantry that they are
exceedingly ignorant. So they are. But he adds: "They are at the same time full of intelligence;
their manners are excellent, they have delicate perceptions, they have tact, they have a certain
refinement which a brutalized peasantry could not possibly have. If you talk to one of them
at his own home, or in his field, he will enter into conversation with you quite easily, and
sustain his part in a perfectly becoming way, with a pleasant combination of dignity and quiet humor.
The interval between him and a Kentish laborer is enormous."
This is, indeed, worth your attention. Of course all mankind are, as Mr. Gladstone says, of
our own flesh and blood. But you know how often it happens in England that a cultivated person, a
person of the sort that Mr. Charles Sumner[466] describes, talking to one of the lower class, or even
of the middle class, feels and cannot but feel, that there is somehow a wall of partition
between himself and the other, that they seem to belong to two different worlds. Thoughts,
feelings, perceptions, susceptibilities, language, manners,--everything is different. Whereas,
with a French peasant, the most cultivated man may find himself in sympathy, may feel that he
is talking to an equal. This is an experience which has been made a thousand times, and which may
be made again any day. And it may be carried beyond the range of mere conversation, it may be
extended to things like pleasures, recreations, eating and drinking, and so on. In general
the pleasures, recreations, eating and drinking of English people,
when once you get below that class which Mr.

This is an atom: 
Charles Sumner calls the class of gentlemen, are to one of that class unpalatable and impossible.
In France there is not this incompatibility. Whether he mix with high or low, the gentleman feels
himself in a world not alien or repulsive, but a world where people make the same sort of demands
upon life, in things of this sort, which he himself does. In all these respects France is
the country where the people, as distinguished from a wealthy refined class, most lives what
we call a humane life, the life of civilized man.

This is an atom: 
Of course, fastidious persons can and do pick holes in it. There is just now, in France, a
_noblesse_ newly revived, full of pretension, full of airs and graces and disdains; but its sphere
is narrow, and out of its own sphere no one cares very much for it. There is a general
equality in a humane kind of life. This is the secret of the passionate attachment with which
France inspires all Frenchmen, in spite of her fearful troubles, her checked prosperity,
her disconnected units, and the rest of it. There is so much of the goodness and agreeableness
of life there, and for so many. It is the secret of her having been able to attach so ardently
to her the German and Protestant people of Alsace,[467] while we have been so little able
to attach the Celtic and Catholic people of Ireland. France brings the Alsatians into a social
system so full of the goodness and agreeableness of life; we offer to the Irish no such
attraction.

This is an atom: 
It is the secret, finally, of the prevalence which we have remarked
in other continental countries of a legislation tending, like that
of France, to social equality.

This is an atom: 
The social system which equality creates in France is, in the eyes
of others, such a giver of the goodness and agreeableness of life,
that they seek to get the goodness by getting the equality.

This is an atom: 
Xenophon and Cheirisophus arranged to recover the dead, and in return
restored the guide; afterwards they did everything for the dead, according to the means at
their disposal, with the customary honours paid to good men.

This is an atom: 
Next day they set off without a guide; and the enemy, by keeping up a continuous battle and
occupying in advance every narrow place, obstructed passage after passage. Accordingly, whenever
the van was obstructed, Xenophon, from behind, made a dash up the hills and broke the barricade,
and freed the vanguard by endeavouring to get above the obstructing enemy. Whenever the rear
was the point attacked, Cheirisophus, in the same way, made a detour, and by endeavouring to
mount higher than the barricaders, freed the passage for the rear rank; and in this way, turn
and turn about, they rescued each other, and paid unflinching attention to their mutual needs.
At times it happened that, the relief party having mounted, encountered considerable annoyance
in their descent from the barbarians, who were so agile that they allowed them to come up quite
close, before they turned back, and still escaped, partly no doubt because the only weapons
they had to carry were bows and slings.

This is an atom: 
They were, moreover, excellent archers, using bows nearly three cubits long and arrows more
than two cubits. When discharging the arrow, they draw the string by getting a purchase with
the left foot planted        28 forward on the lower end of the bow. The arrows pierced through
shield and cuirass, and the Hellenes, when they got hold of them, used them as javelins, fitting
them to their thongs. In these districts the Cretans were highly serviceable. They were under
the command of Stratocles, a Cretan.

This is an atom: 
III

This is an atom: 
During this day they bivouacked in the villages which lie above the     1 plain of the river
Centrites (1), which is about two hundred feet broad. It is the frontier river between Armenia
and the country of the Carduchians. Here the Hellenes recruited themselves, and the sight of
the plain filled them with joy, for the river was but six or seven furlongs distant from the
mountains of the Carduchians. For the moment then they bivouacked right happily; they had their
provisions, they had also many memories of the labours that were now passed; seeing that the
last seven days spent in traversing the country of the Carduchians had been one long continuous
battle, which had cost them more suffering than the whole of their troubles at the hands of
the king and Tissaphernes put together. As though they were truly quit of them for ever, they
laid their heads to rest in sweet content.

This is an atom: 
(1) I.e. the Eastern Tigris.

This is an atom: 
But with the morrow's dawn they espied horsemen at a certain point across the river, armed
cap-a-pie, as if they meant to dispute the passage. Infantry, too, drawn up in line upon the
banks above the cavalry, threatened to prevent them debouching into Armenia. These troops were
Armenian and Mardian and Chaldaean mercenaries belonging to Orontas and Artuchas. The last
of the three, the Chaldaeans, were said to be a free and brave set of people. They were armed
with long wicker shields and lances. The banks before named on which they were drawn up were
a hundred yards or more distant from the river, and the single road which was visible was one
leading upwards and looking like a regular artificially constructed highway. At this point
the Hellenes endeavoured to cross, but on their making the attempt the water proved  6 to be
more than breast-deep, and the river bed was rough with great slippery stones, and as to holding
their arms in the water, it was out of the question--the stream swept them away--or if they
tried to carry them over the head, the body was left exposed to the arrows and other missiles;
accordingly they turned back and encamped there by the bank of the river.

This is an atom: 
At the point where they had themselves been last night, up on the mountains, they could see
the Carduchians collected in large numbers and under arms. A shadow of deep despair again descended
on their souls, whichever way they turned their eyes--in front lay the river so difficult to
ford; over, on the other side, a new enemy threatening to bar the passage; on the hills behind,
the Carduchians ready to fall upon their rear should they once again attempt to cross. Thus
for this day and night they halted, sunk in perplexity. But Xenophon had a dream. In his sleep
he thought that he was bound in fetters, but these, of their own accord, fell from off him,
so that he was loosed, and could stretch his legs as freely as he wished (2). So at the first
glimpse of daylight he came to Cheirisophus and told him that he had hopes that all things
would go well, and related to him his dream.

This is an atom: 
(2) It is impossible to give the true sense and humour of the passage
    in English, depending, as it does, on the double meaning of
    {diabainein} (1) to cross (a river), (2) to stride or straddle (of
    the legs). The army is unable to cross the Centrites; Xenophon
    dreams that he is fettered, but the chains drop off his legs and
    he is able to stride as freely as ever; next morning the two young
    men come to him with the story how they have found themselves able
    to walk cross the river instead of having to swim it. It is
    obvious to Xenophon that the dream is sent from Heaven.

This is an atom: 
The other was well pleased, and with the first faint gleam of dawn the generals all were present
and did sacrifice; and the victims were favourable in the first essay. Retiring from the sacrifice,
the generals and officers issued an order to the troops to take their breakfasts; and while
Xenophon was taking his, two young men came running up to him, for every one knew that, breakfasting
or supping, he was always accessible, or that even if asleep any one was welcome to awaken
him who had anything to say bearing on the business of war.   10 What the two young men had
at this time to say was that they had been collecting brushwood for fire, and had presently
espied on the opposite side, in among some rocks which came down to the river's brink, an old
man and some women and little girls depositing, as it would appear, bags of clothes in a cavernous
rock. When they saw them, it struck them that it was safe to cross; in any case the enemy's
cavalry could not approach at this point. So they stripped naked, expecting to have to swim
for it, and with their long knives in their hands began crossing, but going forward crossed
without being wet up to the fork. Once across they captured the clothes, and came back again.

This is an atom: 
Accordingly Xenophon at once poured out a libation himself, and bade the two young fellows
fill the cup and pray to the gods, who showed to him this vision and to them a passage, to
bring all other blessings for them to accomplishment. When he had poured out the libation,
he at once led the two young men to Cheirisophus, and they repeated to him their story. Cheirisophus,
on hearing it, offered libations also, and when they had performed them, they sent a general
order to the troops to pack up ready for starting, while they themselves called a meeting of
the generals and took counsel how they might best effect a passage, so as to overpower the
enemy in front without suffering any loss from the men behind. And they resolved that Cheirisophus
should lead the van and cross with half the army, the other half still remaining behind under
Xenophon, while the baggage animals and the mob of sutlers were to cross between the two divisions.

This is an atom: 
When all was duly ordered the move began, the young men pioneering them, and keeping the river
on their left. It was about four furlongs' march to the crossing, and as they moved along the
bank, the squadrons of cavalry kept pace with them on the opposite side.

This is an atom: 
But when they had reached a point in a line with the ford, and the cliff-like banks of the
river, they grounded arms, and first Cheirisophus himself placed a wreath upon his brows, and
throwing off   17 his cloak (3), resumed his arms, passing the order to all the rest to do
the same, and bade the captains form their companies in open order in deep columns, some to
left and some to right of himself. Meanwhile the soothsayers were slaying a victim over the
river, and the enemy were letting fly their arrows and slingstones; but as yet they were out
of range. As soon as the victims were favourable, all the soldiers began singing the battle
hymn, and with the notes of the paean mingled the shouting of the men accompanied by the shriller
chant of the women, for there were many women (4) in the camp.

This is an atom: 
(3) Or, "having doffed it," i.e. the wreath, an action which the
    soldiers would perform symbolically, if Grote is right in his
    interpretation of the passage, "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p. 137.

This is an atom: 
(4) Lit. "comrade-women."

This is an atom: 
So Cheirisophus with his detachment stepped in. But Xenophon, taking the most active-bodied
of the rearguard, began running back at full speed to the passage facing the egress into the
hills of Armenia, making a feint of crossing at that point to intercept their cavalry on the
river bank. The enemy, seeing Cheirisophus's detachment easily crossing the stream, and Xenophon's
men racing back, were seized with the fear of being intercepted, and fled at full speed in
the direction of the road which emerges from the stream. But when they were come opposite to
it they raced up hill towards their mountains. Then Lycius, who commanded the cavalry, and
Aeschines, who was in command of the division of light infantry attached to Cheirisophus, no
sooner saw them fleeing so lustily than they were after them, and the soldiers shouted not
to fall behind (5), but to follow them right up to the mountains. Cheirisophus, on getting
across, forbore to pursue the cavalry, but advanced by the bluffs which reached to the river
to attack the enemy overhead. And these, seeing their own cavalry fleeing, seeing also the
heavy infantry advancing upon them, abandoned the heights above the river.

This is an atom: 
(5) Or, "to stick tight to them and not to be outdone"; or, as others
    understand, "the (infantry) soldiers clamoured not to be left
    behind, but to follow them up into the mountains."

This is an atom: 
Xenophon, as soon as he saw that things were going well on the other    24 side, fell back
with all speed to join the troops engaged in crossing, for by this time the Carduchians were
well in sight, descending into the plain to attack their rear.

This is an atom: 
Cheirisophus was in possession of the higher ground, and Lycius, with his little squadron,
in an attempt to follow up the pursuit, had captured some stragglers of their baggage-bearers,
and with them some handsome apparel and drinking-cups. The baggage animals of the Hellenes
and the mob of non-combatants were just about to cross, when Xenonphon turned his troops right
about to face the Carduchians. Vis-a-vis he formed his line, passing the order to the captains
each to form his company into sections, and to deploy them into line by the left, the captains
of companies and lieutenants in command of sections to advance to meet the Carduchians, while
the rear leaders would keep their position facing the river. But when the Carduchians saw the
rearguard so stript of the mass, and looking now like a mere handful of men, they advanced
all the more quickly, singing certain songs the while. Then, as matters were safe with him,
Cheirisophus sent back the peltasts and slingers and archers to join Xenophon, with orders
to carry out his instructions. They were in the act of recrossing, when Xenophon, who saw their
intention, sent a messenger across, bidding them wait there at the river's brink without crossing;
but as soon as he and his detachment began to cross they were to step in facing him in two
flanking divisions right and left of them, as if in the act of crossing; the javelin men with
their javelins on the thong, and the bowmen with their arrows on the string; but they were
not to advance far into the stream. The order passed to his own men was: "Wait till you are
within sling-shot, and the shield rattles, then sound the paean and charge the enemy. As soon
as he turns, and the bugle from the river sounds for 'the attack,' you will face about to the
right, the rear rank leading, and the whole detachment falling back and crossing the river
as quickly as possible, every one preserving his original rank, so as to avoid tramelling one
another: the bravest man is he who gets to the other side first."

This is an atom: 
The Carduchians, seeing that the remnant left was the merest handful    30 (for many even of
those whose duty it was to remain had gone off in their anxiety to protect their beasts of
burden, or their personal kit, or their mistresses), bore down upon them valorously, and opened
fire with slingstones and arrows. But the Hellenes, raising the battle hymn, dashed at them
at a run, and they did not await them; armed well enough for mountain warfare, and with a view
to sudden attack followed by speedy flight, they were not by any means sufficiently equipped
for an engagement at close quarters. At this instant the signal of the bugle was heard. Its
notes added wings to the flight of the barbarians, but the Hellenes turned right about in the
opposite direction, and betook themselves to the river with what speed they might. Some of
the enemy, here a man and there another, perceived, and running back to the river, let fly
their arrows and wounded a few; but the majority, even when the Hellenes were well across,
were still to be seen pursuing their flight. The detachment which came to meet Xenophon's men,
carried away by their valour, advanced further than they had need to, and had to cross back
again in the rear of Xenophon's men, and of these too a few were wounded.

This is an atom: 
IV

This is an atom: 
The passage effected, they fell into line about mid-day, and marched    1 through Armenian
territory, one long plain with smooth rolling hillocks, not less than five parasangs in distance;
for owing to the wars of this people with the Carduchians there were no villages near the river.
The village eventually reached was large, and possessed a palace belonging to the satrap, and
most of the houses were crowned with turrets; provisions were plentiful.

This is an atom: 
From this village they marched two stages--ten parasangs--until they had surmounted the sources
of the river Tigris; and from this point they marched three stages--fifteen parasangs--to the
river Teleboas. This was a fine stream, though not large, and there were many villages about
it. The district was named Western Armenia. The lieutenant-governor of it was Tiribazus, the
king's friend, and whenever the latter paid a visit, he alone had the privilege of mounting
the king upon his horse. This officer rode up to the Hellenes with a body of cavalry, and sending
forward an interpreter, stated that he desired a colloquy with the leaders. The generals resolved
to   5 hear what he had to say; and advancing on their side to within speaking distance, they
demanded what he wanted. He replied that he wished to make a treaty with them, in accordance
with which he on his side would abstain from injuring the Hellenes, if they would not burn
his houses, but merely take such provisions as they needed. This proposal satisfied the generals,
and a treaty was made on the terms suggested.

This is an atom: 
From this place they marched three stages--fifteen parasangs--through plain country, Tiribazus
the while keeping close behind with his own forces more than a mile off. Presently they reached
a palace with villages clustered round about it, which were full of supplies in great variety.
But while they were encamping in the night, there was a heavy fall of snow, and in the morning
it was resolved to billet out the different regiments, with their generals, throughout the
villages. There was no enemy in sight, and the proceeding seemed prudent, owing to the quantity
of snow. In these quarters they had for provisions all the good things there are--sacrificial
beasts, corn, old wines with an exquisite bouquet, dried grapes, and vegetables of all sorts.
But some of the stragglers from the camp reported having seen an army, and the blaze of many
watchfires in the night. Accordingly the generals concluded that it was not prudent to separate
their quarters in this way, and a resolution was passed to bring the troops together again.
After that they reunited, the more so that the weather promised to be fine with a clear sky;
but while they lay there in open quarters, during the night down came so thick a fall of snow
that it completely covered up the stacks of arms and the men themselves lying down. It cramped
and crippled the baggage animals; and there was great unreadiness to get up, so gently fell
the snow as they lay there warm and comfortable, and formed a blanket, except where it slipped
off the sleepers' shoulders; and it was not until Xenophon roused himself to get up, and, without
his cloak on (1), began to split wood, that quickly first one and then another got up, and
taking the log away      12 from him, fell to splitting. Thereat the rest followed suit, got
up, and began kindling fire and oiling their bodies, for there was a scented unguent to be
found there in abundance, which they used instead of oil. It was made from pig's fat, sesame,
bitter almonds, and turpentine. There was a sweet oil also to be found, made of the same ingredients.

This is an atom: 
(1) Or, as we should say, "in his shirt sleeves." Doubtless he lay
    with his {imation} or cloak loosely wrapped round him; as he
    sprang to his feet he would throw it off, or it would fall off,
    and with the simple inner covering of the {khiton} to protect him,
    and arms free, he fell to chopping the wood, only half clad.

This is an atom: 
After this it was resolved that they must again separate their quarters and get under cover
in the villages. At this news the soldiers, with much joy and shouting, rushed upon the covered
houses and the provisions; but all who in their blind folly had set fire to the houses when
they left them before, now paid the penalty in the poor quarters they got. From this place
one night they sent off a party under Democrates, a Temenite (2), up into the mountains, where
the stragglers reported having seen watchfires. The leader selected was a man whose judgement
might be depended upon to verify the truth of the matter. With a happy gift to distinguish
between fact and fiction, he had often been successfully appealed to. He went and reported
that he had seen no watchfires, but he had got a man, whom he brought back with him, carrying
a Persian bow and quiver, and a sagaris or battleaxe like those worn by the Amazons. When asked
"from what country he came," the prisoner answered that he was "a Persian, and was going from
the army of Tiribazus to get provisions." They next asked him "how large the army was, and
for what object it had been collected." His answer was that "it consisted of Tiribazus at the
head of his own forces, and aided by some Chalybian and Taochian mercenaries. Tiribazus had
got it together," he added, "meaning to attack the Hellenes on the high mountain pass, in a
defile which was the sole passage."

This is an atom: 
(2) Reading {Temeniten}, i.e. a native of Temenus, a district of
    Syracuse; al. {Temniten}, i.e. from Temnus in the Aeolid; al.
    {Temeniten}, i.e. from Temenum in the Argolid.

This is an atom: 
When the generals heard this news, they resolved to collect the troops, and they set off at
once, taking the prisoner to act as guide, and leaving a garrison behind with Sophaenetus the
Stymphalian in       19 command of those who remained in the camp. As soon as they had begun
to cross the hills, the light infantry, advancing in front and catching sight of the camp,
did not wait for the heavy infantry, but with a loud shout rushed upon the enemy's entrenchment.
The natives, hearing the din and clatter, did not care to stop, but took rapidly to their heels.
But, for all their expedition, some of them were killed, and as many as twenty horses were
captured, with the tent of Tiribazus, and its contents, silver-footed couches and goblets,
besides certain persons styling themselves the butlers and bakers. As soon as the generals
of the heavy infantry division had learnt the news, they resolved to return to the camp with
all speed, for fear of an attack being made on the remnant left behind. The recall was sounded
and the retreat commenced; the camp was reached the same day.

This is an atom: 
V

This is an atom: 
The next day it was resolved that they should set off with all          1 possible speed, before
the enemy had time to collect and occupy the defile. Having got their kit and baggage together,
they at once began their march through deep snow with several guides, and, crossing the high
pass the same day on which Tiribazus was to have attacked them, got safely into cantonments.
From this point they marched three desert stages--fifteen parassangs--to the river Euphrates,
and crossed it in water up to the waist. The sources of the river were reported to be at no
great distance. From this place they marched through deep snow over a flat country three stages--fifteen
parasangs (1). The last of these marches was trying, with the north wind blowing in their teeth,
drying up everything and benumbing the men. Here one of the seers suggested to them to do sacrifice
to Boreas, and sacrifice was done. The effect was obvious to all in the diminished fierceness
of the blast. But there was six feet of snow, so that many of the baggage animals and slaves
were lost, and about thirty of the men themselves.

This is an atom: 
(1) Al. "ten," al. "five."

This is an atom: 
They spent the whole night in kindling fire; for there was fortunately no dearth of wood at
the halting-place; only those who came late into camp had no wood. Accordingly those who had
arrived a good while and    5 had kindled fires were not for allowing these late-comers near
the fires, unless they would in return give a share of their corn or of any other victuals
they might have. Here then a general exchange of goods was set up. Where the fire was kindled
the snow melted, and great trenches formed themselves down to the bare earth, and here it was
possible to measure the depth of the snow.

This is an atom: 
Leaving these quarters, they marched the whole of the next day over snow, and many of the men
were afflicted with "boulimia" (or hunger-faintness). Xenophon, who was guarding the rear,
came upon some men who had dropt down, and he did not know what ailed them; but some one who
was experienced in such matters suggested to him that they had evidently got boulimia; and
if they got something to eat, they would revive. Then he went the round of the baggage train,
and laying an embargo on any eatables he could see, doled out with his own hands, or sent off
other able-bodied agents to distribute to the sufferers, who as soon as they had taken a mouthful
got on their legs again and continued the march.

This is an atom: 
On and on they marched, and about dusk Cheirisophus reached a village, and surprised some women
and girls who had come from the village to fetch water at the fountain outside the stockade.
These asked them who they were. The interpreters answered for them in Persian: "They were on
their way from the king to the satrap;" in reply to which the women gave them to understand
that the satrap was not at home, but was away a parasang farther on. As it was late they entered
with the water-carriers within the stockade to visit the headman of the village. Accordingly
Cheirisophus and as many of the troops as were able got into cantonments there, while the rest
of the soldiers--those namely who were unable to complete the march--had to spend the night
out, without food and without fire; under the circumstances some of the men perished.

This is an atom: 
On the heels of the army hung perpetually bands of the enemy, snatching away disabled baggage
animals and fighting with each other over the carcases. And in its track not seldom were left
to their fate disabled soldiers, struck down with snow-blindness or with toes         12 mortified
by frostbite. As to the eyes, it was some alleviation against the snow to march with something
black before them; for the feet, the only remedy was to keep in motion without stopping for
an instant, and to loose the sandal at night. If they went to sleep with the sandals on, the
thong worked into the feet, and the sandals were frozen fast to them. This was partly due to
the fact that, since their old sandals had failed, they wore untanned brogues made of newly-flayed
ox-hides. It was owing to some such dire necessity that a party of men fell out and were left
behind, and seeing a black-looking patch of ground where the snow had evidently disappeared,
they conjectured it must have been melted; and this was actually so, owing to a spring of some
sort which was to be seen steaming up in a dell close by. To this they had turned aside and
sat down, and were loth to go a step further. But Xenophon, with his rearguard, perceived them,
and begged and implored them by all manner of means not to be left behind, telling them that
the enemy were after them in large packs pursuing; and he ended by growing angry. They merely
bade him put a knife to their throats; not one step farther would they stir. Then it seemed
best to frighten the pursuing enemy if possible, and prevent their falling upon the invalids.
It was already dusk, and the pursuers were advancing with much noise and hubbub, wrangling
and disputing over their spoils. Then all of a sudden the rearguard, in the plenitude of health
and strength (2), sprang up out of their lair and run upon the enemy, whilst those weary wights
(3) bawled out as loud as their sick throats could sound, and clashed their spears against
their shields; and the enemy in terror hurled themselves through the snow into the dell, and
not one of them ever uttered a sound again.

This is an atom: 
(2) Hug, after Rehdantz, would omit the words "in the plenitude of
    health and strength."

This is an atom: 
(3) Or, "the invalids."

This is an atom: 
Xenophon and his party, telling the sick folk that next day people would come for them, set
off, and before they had gone half a mile they fell in with some soldiers who had laid down
to rest on the snow with their cloaks wrapped round them, but never a guard was established,
and they made them get up. Their explanation was that      19 those in front would not move
on. Passing by this group he sent forward the strongest of his light infantry in advance, with
orders to find out what the stoppage was. They reported that the whole army lay reposing in
such fashion. That being so, Xenophon's men had nothing for it but to bivouac in the open air
also, without fire and supperless, merely posting what pickets they could under the circumstances.
But as soon as it drew towards day, Xenophon despatched the youngest of his men to the sick
folk behind, with orders to make them get up and force them to proceed. Meanwhile Cheirisophus
had sent some of his men quartered in the village to enquire how they fared in the rear; they
were overjoyed to see them, and handed over the sick folk to them to carry into camp, while
they themselves continued their march forward, and ere twenty furlongs were past reached the
village in which Cheirisophus was quartered. As soon as the two divisions were met, the resolution
was come to that it would be safe to billet the regiments throughout the villages; Cheirisophus
remained where he was, while the rest drew lots for the villages in sight, and then, with their
several detachments, marched off to their respective destinations.

This is an atom: 
It was here that Polycrates, an Athenian and captain of a company, asked for leave of absence--he
wished to be off on a quest of his own; and putting himself at the head of the active men of
the division, he ran to the village which had been allotted to Xenophon. He surprised within
it the villagers with their headman, and seventeen young horses which were being reared as
a tribute for the king, and, last of all, the headman's own daughter, a young bride only eight
days wed. Her husband had gone off to chase hares, and so he escaped being taken with the other
villagers. The houses were underground structures with an aperture like the mouth of a well
by which to enter, but they were broad and spacious below. The entrance for the beasts of burden
was dug out, but the human occupants descended by a ladder. In these dwellings were to be found
goats and sheep and cattle, and cocks and hens, with their various progeny. The flocks and
herds were all reared under cover upon green food. There were stores within of wheat and barley
and vegetables, and wine made from barley in great big bowls;    26 the grains of barley malt
lay floating in the beverage up to the lip of the vessel, and reeds lay in them, some longer,
some shorter, without joints; when you were thirsty you must take one of these into your mouth,
and suck. The beverage without admixture of water was very strong, and of a delicious flavour
to certain palates, but the taste must be acquired.

This is an atom: 
Xenophon made the headman of the village his guest at supper, and bade him keep a good heart;
so far from robbing him of his children, they would fill his house full of good things in return
for what they took before they went away; only he must set them an example, and discover some
blessing or other for the army, until they found themselves with another tribe. To this he
readily assented, and with the utmost cordiality showed them the cellar where the wine was
buried. For this night then, having taken up their several quarters as described, they slumbered
in the midst of plenty, one and all, with the headman under watch and ward, and his children
with him safe in sight.

This is an atom: 
But on the following day Xenophon took the headman and set off to Cheirisophus, making a round
of the villages, and at each place turning in to visit the different parties. Everywhere alike
he found them faring sumptuously and merry-making. There was not a single village where they
did not insist on setting a breakfast before them, and on the same table were spread half a
dozen dishes at least, lamb, kid, pork, veal, fowls, with various sorts of bread, some of wheat
and some of barley. When, as an act of courtesy, any one wished to drink his neighbour's health,
he would drag him to the big bowl, and when there, he must duck his head and take a long pull,
drinking like an ox. The headman, they insisted everywhere, must accept as a present whatever
he liked to have. But he would accept nothing, except where he espied any of his relations,
when he made a point of taking them off, him or her, with himself.

This is an atom: 
When they reached Cheirisophus they found a similar scene. There too    33 the men were feasting
in their quarters, garlanded with whisps of hay and dry grass, and Armenian boys were playing
the part of waiters in barbaric costumes, only they had to point out by gesture to the boys
what they were to do, like deaf and dumb. After the first formalities, when Cheirisophus and
Xenophon had greeted one another like bosom friends, they interrogated the headman in common
by means of the Persian-speaking interpreter. "What was the country?" they asked: he replied,
"Armenia." And again, "For whom are the horses being bred?" "They are tribute for the king,"
he replied. "And the neighbouring country?" "Is the land of the Chalybes," he said; and he
described the road which led to it. So for the present Xenophon went off, taking the headman
back with him to his household and friends. He also made him a present of an oldish horse which
he had got; he had heard that the headman was a priest of the sun, and so he could fatten up
the beast and sacrifice him; otherwise he was afraid it might die outright, for it had been
injured by the long marching. For himself he took his pick of the colts, and gave a colt apiece
to each of his fellow-generals and officers. The horses here were smaller than the Persian
horses, but much more spirited. It was here too that their friend the headman explained to
them, how they should wrap small bags or sacks around the feet of the horses and other cattle
when marching through the snow, for without such precautions the creatures sank up to their
bellies.

This is an atom: 
VI

This is an atom: 
When a week had passed, on the eighth day Xenophon delivered over the   1 guide (that is to
say, the village headman) to Cheirisophus. He left the headman's household safe behind in the
village, with the exception of his son, a lad in the bloom of youth. This boy was entrusted
to Episthenes of Amphipolis to guard; if the headman proved himself a good guide, he was to
take away his son also at his departure. They finally made his house the repository of all
the good things they could contrive to get together; then they broke up their camp and commenced
to march, the headman guiding them through the snow unfettered. When they had reached the third
stage Cheirisophus flew     2 into a rage with him, because he had not brought them to any
villages. The headman pleaded that there were none in this part. Cheirisophus struck him, but
forgot to bind him, and the end of it was that the headman ran away in the night and was gone,
leaving his son behind him. This was the sole ground of difference between Cheirisophus and
Xenophon during the march, this combination of ill-treatment and neglect in the case of the
guide. As to the boy, Episthenes conceived a passion for him, and took him home with him, and
found in him the most faithful of friends.

This is an atom: 
After this they marched seven stages at the rate of five parasangs a day, to the banks of the
river Phasis (1), which is a hundred feet broad: and thence they marched another couple of
stages, ten parasangs; but at the pass leading down into the plain there appeared in front
of them a mixed body of Chalybes and Taochians and Phasianians. When Cheirisophus caught sight
of the enemy on the pass at a distance of about three or four miles, he ceased marching, not
caring to approach the enemy with his troops in column, and he passed down the order to the
others: to deploy their companies to the front, that the troops might form into line. As soon
as the rearguard had come up, he assembled the generals and officers, and addressed them: "The
enemy, as you see, are in occupation of the mountain pass, it is time we should consider how
we are to make the best fight to win it. My opinion is, that we should give orders to the troops
to take their morning meal, whilst we deliberate whether we should cross the mountains to-day
or to-morrow." "My opinion," said Cleanor, "is, that as soon as we have breakfasted, we should
arm for the fight and attack the enemy, without loss of time, for if we fritter away to-day,
the enemy who are now content to look at us, will grow bolder, and with their growing courage,
depend upon it, others more numerous will join them."

This is an atom: 
(1) Probably a tributary of the Araxes = modern Pasin-Su.

This is an atom: 
After him Xenophon spoke: "This," he said, "is how I see the matter; if fight we must, let
us make preparation to sell our lives dearly, but if we desire to cross with the greatest ease,
the point to consider is, how we may get the fewest wounds and throw away the smallest number
of good men. Well then, that part of the mountain       11 which is visible stretches nearly
seven miles. Where are the men posted to intercept us? except at the road itself, they are
nowhere to be seen. It is much better to try if possible to steal a point of this desert mountain
unobserved, and before they know where we are, secure the prize, than to fly at a strong position
and an enemy thoroughly prepared. Since it is much easier to march up a mountain without fighting
than to tramp along a level when assailants are at either hand; and provided he has not to
fight, a man will see what lies at his feet much more plainly even at night than in broad daylight
in the midst of battle; and a rough road to feet that roam in peace may be pleasanter than
a smooth surface with the bullets whistling about your ears (2). Nor is it so impossible, I
take it, to steal a march, since it is open to us to go by night, when we cannot be seen, and
to fall back so far that they will never notice us. In my opinion, however, if we make a feint
of attacking here, we shall find the mountain chain all the more deserted elsewhere, since
the enemy will be waiting for us here in thicker swarm.

This is an atom: 
(2) Or, more lit., "with the head a mark for missiles."

This is an atom: 
"But what right have I to be drawing conclusions about stealing in your presence, Cheirisophus?
for you Lacedaemonians, as I have often been told, you who belong to the 'peers,' practise
stealing from your boyhood up; and it is no disgrace but honourable rather to steal, except
such things as the law forbids; and in order, I presume, to stimulate your sense of secretiveness,
and to make you master thieves, it is lawful for you further to get a whipping if you are caught.
Now then you have a fine opportunity of displaying your training. But take care we are not
caught stealing over the mountain, or we shall catch it ourselves." "For all that," retorted
Cheirisophus, "I have heard that you Athenians are clever hands at stealing the public moneys;
and that too though there is a fearful risk for the person so employed; but, I am told, it
is your best men who are addicted to it; if it is your best men who are thought worthy to rule.
So it is a fine opportunity for yourself also, Xenophon, to exhibit your education."    17
"And I," replied Xenophon, "am ready to take the rear division, as soon as we have supped,
and seize the mountain chain. I have already got guides, for the light troops laid an ambuscade,
and seized some of the cut-purse vagabonds who hung on our rear. I am further informed by them
that the mountain is not inaccessible, but is grazed by goats and cattle, so that if we can
once get hold of any portion of it, there will be no difficulty as regards our animals--they
can cross. As to the enemy, I expect they will not even wait for us any longer, when they once
see us on a level with themselves on the heights, for they do not even at present care to come
down and meet us on fair ground." Cheirisophus answered: "But why should you go and leave your
command in the rear? Send others rather, unless a band of volunteers will present themselves."
Thereupon Aristonymus the Methydrian came forward with some heavy infantry, and Nicomachus
the Oetean with another body of light troops, and they made an agreement to kindle several
watch-fires as soon as they held the heights. The arrangements made, they breakfasted; and
after breakfast Cheirisophus advanced the whole army ten furlongs closer towards the enemy,
so as to strengthen the impression that he intended to attack them at that point.

This is an atom: 
But as soon as they had supped and night had fallen, the party under orders set off and occupied
the mountain, while the main body rested where they were. Now as soon as the enemy perceived
that the mountain was taken, they banished all thought of sleep, and kept many watch-fires
blazing throughout the night. But at break of day Cheirisophus offered sacrifice, and began
advancing along the road, while the detachment which held the mountain advanced pari passu
by the high ground. The larger mass of the enemy, on his side, remained still on the mountain-pass,
but a section of them turned to confront the detachment on the heights. Before the main bodies
had time to draw together, the detachment on the height came to close quarters, and the Hellenes
were victorious and gave chase. Meanwhile the light division of the Hellenes, issuing from
the plain, were rapidly advancing against the serried lines of the enemy, whilst Cheirisophus
followed up with his heavy infantry at quick march. But the enemy on the road    25 no sooner
saw their higher division being worsted than they fled, and some few of them were slain, and
a vast number of wicker shields were taken, which the Hellenes hacked to pieces with their
short swords and rendered useless. So when they had reached the summit of the pass, they sacrificed
and set up a trophy, and descending into the plain, reached villages abounding in good things
of every kind.

This is an atom: 
VII

This is an atom: 
After this they marched into the country of the Taochians five          1 stages--thirty parasangs--and
provisions failed; for the Taochians lived in strong places, into which they had carried up
all their stores. Now when the army arrived before one of these strong places--a mere fortress,
without city or houses, into which a motley crowd of men and women and numerous flocks and
herds were gathered--Cheirisophus attacked at once. When the first regiment fell back tired,
a second advanced, and again a third, for it was impossible to surround the place in full force,
as it was encircled by a river. Presently Xenophon came up with the rearguard, consisting of
both light and heavy infantry, whereupon Cheirisophus halted him with the words: "In the nick
of time you have come; we must take this place, for the troops have no provisions, unless we
take it." Thereupon they consulted together, and to Xenophon's inquiry, "What it was which
hindered their simply walking in?" Cheirisophus replied, "There is just this one narrow approach
which you see, but when we attempt to pass it by they roll down volleys of stones from yonder
overhanging crag," pointing up, "and this is the state in which you find yourself, if you chance
to be caught;" and he pointed to some poor fellows with their legs or ribs crushed to bits.
"But when they have expended their ammunition," said Xenophon, "there is nothing else, is there,
to hinder our passing? Certainly, except yonder handful of fellows, there is no one in front
of us that we can see; and of them, only two or three apparently are armed, and the distance
to be traversed under fire is, as your eyes will tell you, about one hundred and fifty feet
as near as can be, and of this space the first hundred is thickly covered with great pines
at intervals; under cover of these, what harm can come to our men from a pelt of stones, flying
6 or rolling? So then, there is only fifty feet left to cross, during a lull of stones." "Ay,"
said Cheirisophus, "but with our first attempt to approach the bush a galling fire of stones
commences." "The very thing we want," said the other, "for they will use up their ammunition
all the quicker; but let us select a point from which we shall have only a brief space to run
across, if we can, and from which it will be easier to get back, if we wish."

This is an atom: 
Thereupon Cheirisophus and Xenophon set out with Callimachus the Parrhasian, the captain in
command of the officers of the rearguard that day; the rest of the captains remained out of
danger. That done, the next step was for a party of about seventy men to get away under the
trees, not in a body, but one by one, every one using his best precaution; and Agasis the Stymphalian,
and Aristonymous the Methydrian, who were also officers of the rearguard, were posted as supports
outside the trees; for it was not possible for more than a single company to stand safely within
the trees. Here Callimachus hit upon a pretty contrivance--he ran forward from the tree under
which he was posted two or three paces, and as soon as the stones came whizzing, he retired
easily, but at each excursion more than ten wagon-loads of rocks were expended. Agasias, seeing
how Callimachus was amusing himself, and the whole army looking on as spectators, was seized
with the fear that he might miss his chance of being first to run the gauntlet of the enemy's
fire and get into the place. So, without a word of summons to his neighbour, Aristonymous,
or to Eurylochus of Lusia, both comrades of his, or to any one else, off he set on his own
account, and passed the whole detachment. But Callimachus, seeing him tearing past, caught
hold of his shield by the rim, and in the meantime Aristonymous the Methydrian ran past both,
and after him Eurylochus of Lusia; for they were one and all aspirants to valour, and in that
high pursuit, each was the eager rival of the rest. So in this strife of honour, the three
of them took the fortress, and when they had once rushed in, not a stone more was hurled from
overhead.

This is an atom: 
And here a terrible spectacle displayed itself: the women first cast their infants down the
cliff, and then they cast themselves after       13 their fallen little ones, and the men likewise.
In such a scene, Aeneas the Stymphalian, an officer, caught sight of a man with a fine dress
about to throw himself over, and seized hold of him to stop him; but the other caught him to
his arms, and both were gone in an instant headlong down the crags, and were killed. Out of
this place the merest handful of human beings were taken prisoners, but cattle and asses in
abundance and flocks of sheep.

This is an atom: 
From this place they marched through the Chalybes (1) seven stages, fifty parasangs. These
were the bravest men whom they encountered on the whole march, coming cheerily to close quarters
with them. They wore linen cuirasses reaching to the groin, and instead of the ordinary "wings"
or basques, a thickly-plaited fringe of cords. They were also provided with greaves and helmets,
and at the girdle a short sabre, about as long as the Laconian dagger, with which they cut
the throats of those they mastered, and after severing the head from the trunk they would march
along carrying it, singing and dancing, when they drew within their enemy's field of view.
They carried also a spear fifteen cubits long, lanced at one end (2). This folk stayed in regular
townships, and whenever the Hellenes passed by they invariably hung close on their heels fighting.
They had dwelling-places in their fortresses, and into them they had carried up their supplies,
sot hat the Hellenes could get nothing from this district, but supported themselves on the
flocks and herds they had taken from the Taochians. After this the Hellenes reached the river
Harpasus, which was four hundred feet broad. Hence they marched through the Scythenians four
stages--twenty parasangs--through a long level country to more villages, among which they halted
three days, and got in supplies.

This is an atom: 
(1) These are the Armeno-Chalybes, so called by Pliny in
    contradistinction to another mountain tribe in Pontus so named,
    who were famous for their forging, and from whom steel received
    its Greek name {khalups}. With these latter we shall make
    acquaintance later on.

This is an atom: 
(2) I.e. with a single point or spike only, the Hellenic spear having
    a spike at the butt end also.

This is an atom: 
Passing on from thence in four stages of twenty parasangs, they         19 reached a large
and prosperous well-populated city, which went by the name of Gymnias (3), from which the governor
of the country sent them a guide to lead them through a district hostile to his own. This guide
told them that within five days he would lead them to a place from which they would see the
sea, "and," he added, "if I fail of my word, you are free to take my life." Accordingly he
put himself at their head; but he no sooner set foot in the country hostile to himself than
he fell to encouraging them to burn and harry the land; indeed his exhortations were so earnest,
it was plain that it was for this he had come, and not out of the good-will he bore the Hellenes.

This is an atom: 
(3) Gymnias is supposed (by Grote, "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p. 161)
    to be the same as that which is now called Gumisch-Kana--perhaps
    "at no great distance from Baibut," Tozer, "Turkish Armenia," p.
    432. Others have identified it with Erzeroum, others with Ispir.

This is an atom: 
On the fifth day they reached the mountain, the name of which was Theches (4). No sooner had
the men in front ascended it and caught sight of the sea than a great cry arose, and Xenophon,
in the rearguard, catching the sound of it, conjectured that another set of enemies must surely
be attacking in front; for they were followed by the inhabitants of the country, which was
all aflame; indeed the rearguard had killed some and captured others alive by laying an ambuscade;
they had taken also about twenty wicker shields, covered with the raw hides of shaggy oxen.

This is an atom: 
(4) Some MSS. give "the sacred mountain." The height in question has
    been identified with "the ridge called Tekieh-Dagh to the east of
    Gumisch-Kana, nearer to the sea than that place" (Grote, ib. p.
    162), but the exact place from which they caught sight of the sea
    has not been identified as yet, and other mountain ranges have
    been suggested.

This is an atom: 
But as the shout became louder and nearer, and those who from time to time came up, began racing
at the top of their speed towards the shouters, and the shouting continually recommenced with
yet greater volume as the numbers increased, Xenophon settled in his mind that something extraordinary
must have happened, so he mounted his horse, and taking with him Lycius and the cavalry, he
galloped to the rescue. Presently they could hear the soldiers shouting and passing on the
joyful word, "The sea! the sea!"

This is an atom: 
Thereupon they began running, rearguard and all, and the baggage        24 animals and horses
came galloping up. But when they had reached the summit, then indeed they fell to embracing
one another--generals and officers and all--and the tears trickled down their cheeks. And on
a sudden, some one, whoever it was, having passed down the order, the soldiers began bringing
stones and erecting a great cairn, whereon they dedicated a host of untanned skins, and staves,
and captured wicker shields, and with his own hand the guide hacked the shields to pieces,
inviting the rest to follow his example. After this the Hellenes dismissed the guide with a
present raised from the common store, to wit, a horse, a silver bowl, a Persian dress, and
ten darics; but what he most begged to have were their rings, and of these he got several from
the soldiers. So, after pointing out to them a village where they would find quarters, and
the road by which they would proceed towards the land of the Macrones, as evening fell, he
turned his back upon them in the night and was gone.

This is an atom: 
VIII

This is an atom: 
From this point the Hellenes marched through the country of the         1 Macrones three stages--ten
parasangs, and on the first day they reached the river, which formed the boundary between the
land of the Macrones and the land of the Scythenians. Above them, on their right, they had
a country of the sternest and ruggedest character, and on their left another river, into which
the frontier river discharges itself, and which they must cross. This was thickly fringed with
trees which, though not of any great bulk, were closely packed. As soon as they came up to
them, the Hellenes proceeded to cut them down in their haste to get out of the place as soon
as possible. But the Macrones, armed with wicker shields and lances and hair tunics, were already
drawn up to receive them opposite the crossing. They were cheering one another on, and kept
up a steady pelt of stones into the river, though they failed to reach the other side or do
any harm.

This is an atom: 
At this juncture one of the light infantry came up to Xenophon; he had been, he said, a slave
at Athens, and he wished to tell him that he recognised the speech of these people. "I think,"
said he, "that this must be my native country, and if there is no objection I will have a talk
with them." "No objection at all," replied Xenophon, "pray talk    5 to them, and ask them
first, who they are." In answer to this question they said, "they were Macrones." "Well, then,"
said he, "ask them why they are drawn up in battle and want to fight with us." They answered,
"Because you are invading our country." The generals bade him say: "If so, it is with not intention
certainly of doing it or you any harm: but we have been at war with the king, and are now returning
to Hellas, and all we want is to reach the sea." The others asked, "Were they willing to give
them pledges to that effect?" They replied: "Yes, they were ready to give and receive pledges
to that effect." Then the Macrones gave a barbaric lance to the Hellenes, and the Hellenes
a Hellenic lance to them: "for these," they said, "would serve as pledges," and both sides
called upon the gods to witness.

This is an atom: 
After the pledges were exchanged, the Macrones fell to vigorously hewing down trees and constructing
a road to help them across, mingling freely with the Hellenes and fraternising in their midst,
and they afforded them as good as market as they could, and for three days conducted them on
their march, until they had brought them safely to the confines of the Colchians. At this point
they were confronted by a great mountain chain, which however was accessible, and on it the
Colchians were drawn up for battle. In the first instance, the Hellenes drew up opposite in
line of battle, as though they were minded to assault the hill in that order; but afterwards
the generals determined to hold a council of war, and consider how to make the fairest fight.

This is an atom: 
Accordingly Xenophon said: "I am not for advancing in line, but advise to form companies by
columns. To begin with, the line," he urged, "would be scattered and thrown into disorder at
once; for we shall find the mountain full of inequalities, it will be pathless here and easy
to traverse there. The mere fact of first having formed in line, and then seeing the line thrown
into disorder, must exercise a disheartening effect. Again, if we advance several deep, the
enemy will none the less overlap us, and turn their superfluous numbers to account as best
they like; while, if we march in shallow order, we may fully expect our line to be cut through
and through by the thick rain   11 of missiles and rush of men, and if this happen anywhere
along the line, the whole line will equally suffer. No; my notion is to form columns by companies,
covering ground sufficient with spaces between the companies to allow the last companies of
each flank to be outside the enemy's flanks. Thus we shall with our extreme companies be outside
the enemy's line, and the best men at the head of their columns will lead the attack, and every
company will pick its way where the ground is easy; also it will be difficult for the enemy
to force his way into the intervening spaces, when there are companies on both sides; nor will
it be easy for him to cut in twain any individual company marching in column. If, too, any
particular company should be pressed, the neighbouring company will come to the rescue, or
if at any point any single company succeed in reaching the height, from that moment not one
man of the enemy will stand his ground."

This is an atom: 
This proposal was carried, and they formed into columns by companies (1). Then Xenophon, returning
from the right wing to the left, addressed the soldiers. "Men," he said, "these men whom you
see in front of you are the sole obstacles still interposed between us and the haven of our
hopes so long deferred. We will swallow them up whole, without cooking (2), if we can."

This is an atom: 
(1) For this formation, see "The Retreat of the Ten Thousand; a
    military study for all time," by Lieut.-General J. L. Vaughan,
    C.B.

This is an atom: 
(2) Or, "we will gobble them up raw." He is thinking of the Homeric
    line ("Iliad", iv. 35) "Perchance wert thou to enter within the
    gates and long walls and devour Priam raw, and Priam's sons and
    all the Trojans, then mightest thou assuage thine anger."--Leaf.

This is an atom: 
The several divisions fell into position, the companies were formed into columns, and the result
was a total of something like eighty companies of heavy infantry, each company consisting on
an average of a hundred men. The light infantry and bowmen were arranged in three divisions--two
outside to support the left and the right respectively, and the third in the centre--each division
consisting of about six hundred men (3).

This is an atom: 
(3) This suggests 1800 as the total of the peltasts, 8000 as the total
    of the hoplites, but the companies were probably not limited to
    100, and under "peltasts" were probably included other light
    troops.

This is an atom: 
Before starting, the generals passed the order to offer prayer; and     16 with the prayer
and battle hymn rising from their lips they commenced their advance. Cheirisophus and Xenophon,
and the light infantry with them, advanced outside the enemy's line to right and left, and
the enemy, seeing their advance, made an effort to keep parallel and confront them, but in
order to do so, as he extended partly to right and partly to left, he was pulled to pieces,
and there was a large space or hollow left in the centre of his line. Seeing them separate
thus, the light infantry attached to the Arcadian battalion, under command of Aeschines, an
Arcarnanian, mistook the movement for flight, and with a loud shout rushed on, and these were
the first to scale the mountain summit; but they were closely followed up by the Arcadian heavy
infantry, under command of Cleanor of Orchomenus.

This is an atom: 
When they began running in that way, the enemy stood their ground no longer, but betook themselves
to flight, one in one direction, one in another, and the Hellenes scaled the hill and found
quarters in numerous villages which contained supplies in abundance. Here, generally speaking,
there was nothing to excite their wonderment, but the numbers of bee-hives were indeed astonishing,
and so were certain properties of the honey (4). The effect upon the soldiers who tasted the
combs was, that they all went for the nonce quite off their heads, and suffered from vomiting
and diarrhoea, with a total inability to stand steady on their legs. A small dose produced
a condition not unlike violent drunkenness, a large one an attack very like a fit of madness,
and some dropped down, apparently at death's door. So they lay, hundreds of them, as if there
had been a great defeat, a prey to the cruellest despondency. But the next day, none had died;
and almost at the same hour of the day at which they had eaten they recovered their senses,
and on the third or fourth day got on their legs again like convalescents after a severe course
of medical treatment.

This is an atom: 
(4) "Modern travellers attest the existence, in these regions, of
    honey intoxicating and poisonous.... They point out the Azalea
    Pontica as the flower from which the bees imbibe this peculiar
    quality."--Grote, "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p. 155.

This is an atom: 
From this place they marched on two stages--seven parasangs--and        22 reached the sea
at Trapezus (5), a populous Hellenic city on the Euxine Sea, a colony of the Sinopeans, in
the territory of the Colchians. Here they halted about thirty days in the villages of the Colchians,
which they used as a base of operations to ravage the whole territory of Colchis. The men of
Trapezus supplied the army with a market, entertained them, and gave them, as gifts of hospitality,
oxen and wheat and wine. Further, they negotiated with them in behalf of their neighbours the
Colchians, who dwelt in the plain for the most part, and from this folk also came gifts of
hospitality in the shape of cattle. And now the Hellenes made preparation for the sacrifice
which they had vowed, and a sufficient number of cattle came in for them to offer thank-offerings
for safe guidance to Zeus the Saviour, and to Heracles (6), and to the other gods, according
to their vows. They instituted also a gymnastic contest on the mountain side, just where they
were quartered, and chose Dracontius, a Spartan (who had been banished from home when a lad,
having unintentionally slain another boy with a blow of his dagger), to superintend the course,
and be president of the games.

This is an atom: 
(5) Trebizond.

This is an atom: 
(6) Or, "to sacrifice to Zeus the Preserver, and to Heracles
    thank-offerings for safe guidance," Heracles "the conductor"
    having special sympathy with wanderers.

This is an atom: 
As soon as the sacrifices were over, they handed over the hides of the beasts to Dracontius,
and bade him lead the way to his racecourse. He merely waved his hand and pointed to where
they were standing, and said, "There, this ridge is just the place for running, anywhere, everywhere."
"But how," it was asked, "will they manage to wrestle on the hard scrubby ground?" "Oh! worse
knocks for those who are thrown," the president replied. There was a mile race for boys, the
majority being captive lads; and for the long race more than sixty Cretans competed; there
was wrestling, boxing, and the pankration (7). Altogether it was a beautiful spectacle. There
was a large number of entries, and the emulation, with their companions, male and female, 
27 standing as spectators, was immense. There was horse-racing also; the riders had to gallop
down a steep incline to the sea, and then turn and come up again to the altar, and on the descent
more than half rolled head over heels, and then back they came toiling up the tremendous steep,
scarcely out of a walking pace. Loud were the shouts, the laughter, and the cheers.

This is an atom: 
(7) The pankration combined both wrestling and boxing.

This is an atom: 
BOOK V

This is an atom: 
(In the preceding portion of the narrative a detailed account
is given of all that the Hellenes did, and how they fared on
the march up with Cyrus; and also of all that befell them on
their march subsequently, until they reached the seaboard of
the Euxine Sea, or Pontus, and the Hellenic city of Trapezus,
where they duly offered the sacrifice for safe deliverance
which they had vowed to offer as soon as they set foot on a
friendly soil.)

This is an atom: 
I

This is an atom: 
After this they met and took counsel concerning the remainder of the    1 march. The first
speaker was Antileon of Thurii. He rose and said: "For my part, sirs, I am weary by this time
of getting kit together and packing up for a start, of walking and running and carrying heavy
arms, and of tramping along in line, or mounting guard, and doing battle. The sole desire I
now have is to cease from all these pains, and for the future, since here we have the sea before
us, to sail on and on, 'stretched out in sleep,' like Odysseus, and so to find myself in Hellas."
When they heard these remarks, the soldiers showed their approval with loud cries of "well
said," and then another spoke to the same effect, and then another, and indeed all present.
Then Cheirisophus got up and said: "I have a friend, sirs, who, as good hap will have it, is
now high admiral, Anaxibius. If you like to send me to him, I think I can safely promise to
return with some men-of-war and other vessels which will carry us. All you have to do, if you
are really minded to go home by sea, is to wait here till I come. I will be back ere long."
The soldiers were delighted at these words, and      4 voted that Cheirisophus should set sail
on his mission without delay.

This is an atom: 
After him, Xenophon got up, and spoke as follows: "Cheirisophus, it is agreed, sets out in
search of vessels, and we are going to await him. Let me tell you what, in my opinion, it is
reasonable to do while we are waiting. First of all, we must provide ourselves with necessaries
from hostile territory, for there is not a sufficient market, nor, if there were, have we,
with a few solitary exceptions, the means of purchase. Now, the district is hostile, so that
if you set off in search of provisions without care and precaution, the chances are that many
of us will be lost. To meet this risk, I propose that we should organise foraging parties to
capture provisions, and, for the rest, not roam about the country at random. The organisation
of the matter should be left to us." (The resolution was passed.) "Please listen to another
proposal;" he continued: "Some of you, no doubt, will be going out to pillage. It will be best,
I think, that whoever does so should in each case before starting inform us of his intent,
and in what direction he means to go, so that we may know the exact number of those who are
out and of those who stop behind. Thus we shall be able to help in preparing and starting the
expedition where necessary; and in case of aid or reinforcements being called for, we shall
know in what direction to proceed; or, again, if the attempt is to be undertaken by raw or
less expert hands, we may throw in the weight of our experience and advice by endeavouring
to discover the strength of those whom they design to attack." This proposal was also carried.
"Here is another point," he continued, "to which I would draw your attention. Our enemies will
not lack leisure to make raids upon us: nor is it unnatural, that they should lay plots for
us; for we have appropriated what is theirs; they are seated over us ever on the watch. I propose
then that we should have regular outposts round the camp. If we take it in succession to do
picket and outlook duty, the enemy will be less able to harry us. And here is another point
for your observation; supposing we knew for certain that Cheirisophus must return with a sufficient
number of vessels, there would be no need of   10 the remark, but as that is still problematical,
I propose that we should try to get together vessels on the spot also. If he comes and finds
us already provided for here, we shall have more ships than we need, that is all; while, if
he fails to bring them, we shall have the local supply to fall back upon. I see ships sailing
past perpetually, so we have only to ask the loan of some war-ships from the men of Trapezus,
and we can bring them into port, and safeguard them with their rudders unshipped, until we
have enough to carry us. By this course I think we shall not fail of finding the means of transport
requisite." That resolution was also passed. He proceeded: "Consider whether you think it equitable
to support by means of a general fund the ships' companies which we so impress, while they
wait here for our benefit, and to agree upon a fare, on the principle of repaying kindnesses
in kind." That too was passed. "Well then," said he, "in case, after all, our endeavours should
not be crowned with success, and we find that we have not vessels enough, I propose that we
should enjoin on the cities along the seaboard the duty of constructing and putting in order
the roads, which we hear are impassable. They will be only too glad to obey, no doubt, out
of mere terror and their desire to be rid of us."

This is an atom: 
This last proposal was met by loud cries and protestations against the idea of going by land
at all. So, perceiving their infatuation, he did not put the question to the vote, but eventually
persuaded the cities voluntarily to construct roads by the suggestion, "If you get your roads
in good order, we shall all the sooner be gone." They further got a fifty-oared galley from
the Trapezuntines, and gave the command of it to Dexippus, a Laconian, one of the perioeci
(1). This man altogether neglected to collect vessels on the offing, but slunk off himself,
and vanished, ship and all, out of Pontus. Later on, however, he paid the penalty of his misdeeds.
He became involved in some meddling and making in Thrace at the court of Seuthes, and was put
to death by the Laconian Nicander. They also got a thirty-oared galley, the command of which
was entrusted to Polycrates, an Athenian, and      16 that officer brought into harbour to
the camp all the vessels he could lay his hands on. If these were laden, they took out the
freights and appointed guards to keep an eye on their preservation, whilst they used the ships
themselves for transport service on the coast. While matters stood at this point, the Hellenes
used to make forays with varying success; sometimes they captured prey and sometimes they failed.
On one occasion Cleanetus led his own and another company against a strong position, and was
killed himself, with many others of his party.

This is an atom: 
(1) A native of the country parts of Laconia.

This is an atom: 
II

This is an atom: 
The time came when it was no longer possible to capture provisions,     1 going and returning
to the camp in one day. In consequence of this, Xenophon took some guides from the Trapezuntines
and led half the army out against the Drilae, leaving the other half to guard the camp. That
was necessary, since the Colchians, who had been ousted from their houses, were assembled thickly,
and sat eyeing them from the heights above; on the other hand the Trapezuntines, being friendly
to the native inhabitants, were not for leading the Hellenes to places where it was easy to
capture provisions. But against the Drilae, from whom they personally suffered, they would
lead them with enthusiasm, up into mountainous and scarcely accessible fortresses, and against
the most warlike people of any in the Pontus.

This is an atom: 
But when the Hellenes had reached the uplands, the Drilae set fire to all their fastnesses
which they thought could be taken easily, and beat a retreat; and except here and there a stray
pig or bullock or other animal which had escaped the fire there was nothing to capture; but
there was one fastness which served as their metropolis: into this the different streams of
people collected; round it ran a tremendously deep ravine, and the approaches to the place
were difficult. So the light infantry ran forward five or six furlongs in advance of the heavy
infantry, and crossed the ravine; and seeing quantities of sheep and other things, proceeded
to attack the place. Close at their heels followed a number of those who had set out on the
foray armed with spears, so that the storming party across the ravine amounted to more than
two thousand. But, finding that they could not take the place by   5 a coup-de-main, as there
was a trench running round it, mounded up some breadth, with a stockade on the top of the earthwork
and a close-packed row of wooden bastions, they made an attempt to run back, but the enemy
fell upon them from the rear. To get away by a sudden rush was out of the question, since the
descent from the fortress into the ravine only admitted of moving in single file. Under the
circumstances they sent to Xenophon, who was in command of the heavy infantry. The messenger
came and delivered his message: "There is a fastness choke full of all sorts of stores, but
we cannot take it, it is too strong; nor can we easily get away; the enemy rush out and deliver
battle, and the return is difficult."

This is an atom: 
On hearing this, Xenophon pushed forward his heavy infantry to the edge of the ravine, and
there ordered them to take up a position, while he himself with the officers crossed over to
determine whether it were better to withdraw the party already across, or to bring over the
heavy infantry also, on the supposition that the fortress might be taken. In favour of the
latter opinion it was agreed that the retreat must cost many lives, and the officers were further
disposed to think, they could take the place. Xenophon consented, relying on the victims, for
the seers had announced, that there would be a battle, but that the result of the expedition
would be good. So he sent the officers to bring the heavy troops across, while he himself remained,
having drawn off all the light infantry and forbidden all sharp-shooting at long range. As
soon as the heavy infantry had arrived, he ordered each captain to form his company, in whatever
way he hoped to make it most effective in the coming struggle. Side by side together they stood,
these captains, not for the first time to-day competitors for the award of manly virtue. While
they were thus employed, he--the general--was engaged in passing down his order along the ranks
of the light infantry and archers respectively to march with the javelin on its thong and the
arrow to the string, ready at the word "shoot" to discharge their missiles, while the light
troops were to have their wallets well stocked with slingstones; lastly, he despatched his
12 adjutants to see to the proper carrying out of these orders.

This is an atom: 
And now the preparations were complete: the officers and lieutenants and all others claiming
to be peers of these, were drawn up in their several places. With a glance each was able to
command the rest in the crescent-like disposition which the ground invited. Presently the notes
of the battle hymn arose, the clarion spoke, and with a thrilling cry in honour of the warrior-god,
commenced a rush of the heavy infantry at full speed under cover of a storm of missiles, lances,
arrows, bullets, but most of all stones hurled from the hand with ceaseless pelt, while there
were some who brought firebrands to bear. Overwhelmed by this crowd of missiles, the enemy
left their stockades and their bastion towers, which gave Agasias the Stymphalian and Philoxenus
of Pellene a chance not to be missed; laying aside their heavy arms, up they went in bare tunics
only, and one hauled another up, and meantime another had mounted, and the place was taken,
as they thought. Then the peltasts and light troops rushed in and began snatching what each
man could. Xenophon the while, posted at the gates, kept back as many of the hoplites as he
could, for there were other enemies now visible on certain strong citadel heights; and after
a lapse of no long time a shout arose within, and the men came running back, some still clutching
what they had seized; and presently here and there a wounded man; and mighty was the jostling
about the portals. To the questions which were put to them the outpouring fugitives repeated
the same story: there was a citadel within and enemies in crowds were making savage sallies
and beating the fellows inside.

This is an atom: 
At that Xenophon ordered Tolmides the herald to proclaim: "Enter all who are minded to capture
aught." In poured the surging multitude, and the counter-current of persons elbowing their
passage in prevailed over the stream of those who issued forth, until they beat back and cooped
up the enemy within the citadel again. So outside the citadel everything was sacked and pillaged
by the Hellenes, and the heavy infantry took up their position, some about the stockades, others
19 along the road leading up to the citadel. Xenophon and the officers meantime considered
the possibility of taking the citadel, for if so, their safety was assured; but if otherwise,
it would be very difficult to get away. As the result of their deliberations they agreed that
the place was impregnable. Then they began making preparations for the retreat. Each set of
men proceeded to pull down the palisading which faced themselves; further, they sent away all
who were useless or who had enough to do to carry their burdens, with the mass of the heavy
infantry accompanying them; the officers in each case leaving behind men whom they could severally
depend on.

This is an atom: 
But as soon as they began to retreat, out rushed upon them from within a host of fellows, armed
with wicker shields and lances, greaves and Paphlagonian helmets. Others might be seen scaling
the houses on this side and that of the road leading into the citadel. Even pursuit in the
direction of the citadel was dangerous, since the enemy kept hurling down on them great beams
from above, so that to stop and to make off were alike dangerous, and night approaching was
full of terrors. But in the midst of their fighting and their despair some god gave them a
means of safety. All of a sudden, by whatsoever hand ignited, a flame shot up; it came from
a house on the right hand, and as this gradually fell in, the people from the other houses
on the right took to their heels and fled.

This is an atom: 
Xenophon, laying this lesson of fortune to heart, gave orders to set fire to the left-hand
houses also, which being of wood burned quickly, with the result that the occupants of these
also took to flight. The men immediately at their front were the sole annoyance now, and these
were safe to fall upon them as they made their exit and in their descent. answered the landlord,
with a landlord's laugh,--"How can I but ken my ain wife's (haly be her rest!)--my ain wife's first
gudeman's sister, Bessie Maclure?
An honest wife she is, but sair she's been trysted wi' misfortunes,--the loss o' twa decent
lads o' sons, in the time o' the persecution, as they ca' it nowadays; and doucely and
decently she has borne her burden, blaming nane and condemning nane. If there's an honest
woman in the world, it's Bessie Maclure.

This is an atom: 
And to lose her twa sons, as I was saying, and to hae dragoons clinked down on her for a month
bypast,--for, be Whig or Tory uppermost, they aye quarter thae loons on victuallers,--to lose, as
I was saying--"
"This woman keeps an inn, then?" interrupted Morton.

This is an atom: 
"A public, in a puir way," replied Blane, looking round at his own superior accommodations,--"a
sour browst o' sma' ale that she sells to folk that are over drouthy wi' travel to be nice; but
naething to ca' a stirring trade or a thriving changehouse."
"Can you get me a guide there?" said Morton.

This is an atom: 
"Your honour will rest here a' the night? Ye'll hardly get accommodation at Bessie's," said
Niel, whose regard for his deceased wife's relative by no means extended to sending company
from his own house to hers.

This is an atom: 
"There is a friend," answered Morton, "whom I am to meet with there,
    and I only called here to take a stirrup-cup and inquire the way."

This is an atom: 
"Your honour had better," answerd the landlord, with the perseverance
of his calling, "send some ane to warn your friend to come on here."

This is an atom: 
"I tell you, landlord," answered Morton, impatiently, "that will not serve my purpose; I must
go straight to this woman Maclure's house, and I desire you to find me a guide."
"Aweel, sir, ye'll choose for yoursell, to be sure," said Niel Blane, somewhat disconcerted;
"but deil a guide ye'll need if ye gae doun the water for twa mile or sae, as gin ye were bound
for Milnwoodhouse, and then tak the first broken disjasked-looking road that makes for the
hills,--ye'll ken 't by a broken ash-tree that stands at the side o' a burn just where the
roads meet; and then travel out the path,--ye canna miss Widow Maclure's public, for deil
another house or hauld is on the road for ten lang Scots miles, and that's worth twenty
English. I am sorry your honour would think o' gaun out o' my house the night. But my wife's
gude-sister is a decent woman, and it's no lost that a friend gets."
Morton accordingly paid his reckoning and departed.

This is an atom: 
The sunset of the summer day placed him at the ash-tree, where the path led up towards the
moors.

This is an atom: 
"Here," he said to himself, "my misfortunes commenced; for just here,
    when Burley and I were about to separate on the first night
    we ever met, he was alarmed by the intelligence that the passes
    were secured by soldiers lying in wait for him. Beneath that very
    ash sate the old woman who apprised him of his danger.

This is an atom: 
How strange that my whole fortunes should have become inseparably interwoven with that man's,
without anything more on my part than the discharge of an ordinary duty of humanity! Would
to Heaven it were possible I could find my humble quiet and tranquillity of mind upon the spot
where I lost them!"
Thus arranging his reflections betwixt speech and thought, he turned his horse's head up the
path.

This is an atom: 
Evening lowered around him as he advanced up the narrow dell which had once been a wood, but
was now a ravine divested of trees, unless where a few, from their inaccessible situation on
the edge of precipitous banks, or clinging among rocks and huge
stones, defied the invasion of men and of cattle, like the scattered
tribes of a conquered country, driven to take refuge in the barren
strength of its mountains.

This is an atom: 
These too, wasted and decayed, seemed rather to exist than to flourish,
    and only served to indicate what the landscape had once been.

This is an atom: 
But the stream brawled down among them in all its freshness and vivacity,
    giving the life and animation which a mountain rivulet alone
    can confer on the barest and most savage scenes, and which the
    inhabitants of such a country miss when gazing even upon the
tranquil winding of a majestic stream through plains of fertility,
and beside palaces of splendour.

This is an atom: 
The track of the road followed the course of the brook, which was now visible, and now only
to be distinguished by its brawling heard among the stones or in the clefts of the rock that
occasionally interrupted its course.

This is an atom: 
"Murmurer that thou art," said Morton, in the enthusiasm of his reverie, "why chafe with the
rocks that stop thy course for a moment? There is a sea to receive thee in its bosom; and
there is an eternity for man when his fretful and hasty course through the vale of time shall
be ceased and over.

This is an atom: 
What thy petty fuming is to the deep and vast billows of a shoreless
    ocean, are our cares, hopes, fears, joys, and sorrows to the objects
    which must occupy us through the awful and boundless succession
    of ages!"
    Thus moralizing, our traveller passed on till the dell opened,
    and the banks, receding from the brook, left a little green
    vale, exhibiting a croft, or small field, on which some corn was
    growing, and a cottage, whose walls were not above five feet
    high, and whose thatched roof, green with moisture, age, houseleek,
    and grass, had in some places suffered damage from the encroachment
    of two cows, whose appetite this appearance of verdure had
    diverted from their more legitimate pasture. An ill-spelt and
    worse-written inscription intimated to the traveller that he might
here find refreshment for man and horse,--no unacceptable intimation,
rude as the hut appeared to be, considering the wild path he had
trod in approaching it, and the high and waste mountains which rose
in desolate dignity behind this humble asylum.

This is an atom: 
It must indeed have been, thought Morton, in some such spot as this that Burley was likely to
find a congenial confident.

This is an atom: 
As he approached, he observed the good dame of the house herself, seated by the door; she had
hitherto been concealed from him by a huge alder-bush.

This is an atom: 
"Good evening, Mother," said the traveller. "Your name is Mistress Maclure?"
"Elizabeth Maclure, sir, a poor widow," was the reply.

This is an atom: 
"Can you lodge a stranger for a night?"
"I can, sir, if he will be pleased with the widow's cake and the widow's cruse."
"I have been a soldier, good dame," answered Morton, "and nothing can come amiss to me in the
way of entertainment."
"A sodger, sir?" said the old woman, with a sigh,--"God send ye a better trade!"
"It is believed to be an honourable profession, my good dame; I hope you do not think the worse
of me for having belonged to it?"
"I judge no one, sir," replied the woman, "and your voice sounds like that of a civil gentleman;
but I hae witnessed sae muckle ill wi' sodgering in this puir land that I am e'en content
that I can see nae mair o't wi' these sightless organs."

This is an atom: 
As she spoke thus, Morton observed that she was blind.
    
    "Shall I not be troublesome to you, my good dame?" said he,
    compassionately; "your infirmity seems ill calculated for your
profession."

This is an atom: 
"Na, sir," answered the old woman, "I can gang about the house
readily eneugh; and I hae a bit lassie to help me, and the dragoon
lads will look after your horse when they come hame frae their
patrol, for a sma' matter; they are civiller now than lang syne."

This is an atom: 
Upon these assurances, Morton alighted.

This is an atom: 
"Peggy, my bonny bird," continued the hostess, addressing a little girl of twelve years old, who
had by this time appeared, "tak the gentleman's horse to the stable, and slack his girths, and
tak aff the bridle, and shake down a lock o' hay before him, till the dragoons come back.--Come
this way, sir," she continued; "ye'll find my house clean, though it's a puir ane."
Morton followed her into the cottage accordingly.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XXI.

This is an atom: 
Then out and spake the auld mother, And fast her tears did fa "Ye wadna be warn'd, my son Johnie,
Frae the hunting to bide awa!" Old Ballad.

This is an atom: 
When he entered the cottage, Morton perceived that the old hostess had spoken truth. The inside
of the hut belied its outward appearance, and was neat, and even comfortable, especially the
inner apartment, in which the hostess informed her guest that he was to sup and sleep.
Refreshments were placed before him such as the little inn afforded; and though he had small
occasion for them, he accepted the offer, as the means of maintaining some discourse with the
landlady.
Notwithstanding her blindness, she was assiduous in her attendance, and seemed, by a sort of
instinct, to find her way to what she wanted.

This is an atom: 
"Have you no one but this pretty little girl to assist you in waiting
on your guests?"

This is an atom: 
was the natural question.

This is an atom: 
"None, sir," replied his old hostess; "I dwell alone, like the widow of Zarephath. Few guests come
to this puir place, and I haena custom eneugh to hire servants. I had anes twa fine sons that
lookit after a' thing. --But God gives and takes away,--His name be praised!" she continued,
turning her clouded eyes towards Heaven.--"I was anes better off, that is, waridly speaking,
even since I lost them; but that was before this last change."
"Indeed!" said Morton; "and yet you are a Presbyterian, my good mother?"
"I am, sir; praised be the light that showed me the right way," replied the landlady.

This is an atom: 
"Then I should have thought," continued the guest, the Revolution would have brought you nothing
but good."
"If," said the old woman, "it has brought the land gude, and freedom of worship to tender
consciences, it's little matter what it has brought to a puir blind worm like me."
"Still," replied Morton, "I cannot see how it could possibly injure you."
"It's a lang story, sir," answered his hostess, with a sigh. "But ae night, sax weeks or thereby
afore Bothwell Brigg, a young gentleman stopped at this puir cottage, stiff and bloody with
wounds, pale and dune out wi' riding, and his horse sae weary he couldna drag ae foot after the
other, and his foes were close ahint him, and he was ane o' our enemies. What could I do,
sir? You that's a sodger will think me but a silly auld wife; but I fed him, and relieved him,
and keepit him hidden till the pursuit was ower."
"And who," said Morton, "dares disapprove of your having done so?"

This is an atom: 
"I kenna," answered the blind woman; "I gat ill-will about it amang some o' our ain folk. They
said I should hae been to him what Jael was to Sisera. But weel I wot I had nae divine command
to shed blood, and to save it was baith like a woman and a Christian. And then they said I
wanted natural affection, to relieve ane that belanged to the band that murdered my twa
sons."
"That murdered your two sons?"
"Ay, sir; though maybe ye'll gie their deaths another name. The tane fell wi' sword in hand,
fighting for a broken national Covenant; the tother,--oh, they took him and shot him dead on
the green before his mother's face! My auld een dazzled when the shots were looten off, and,
to my thought, they waxed weaker and weaker ever since that weary day; and sorrow, and
heart-break, and tears that would not be dried, might help on the disorder. But, alas! betraying
Lord Evandale's young blood to his enemies' sword wad ne'er hae brought my Ninian and Johnie
alive again."
"Lord Evandale?" said Morton, in surprise. "Was it Lord Evandale whose life you saved?"
"In troth, even his," she replied. "And kind he was to me after, and gae me a cow and calf,
malt, meal, and siller, and nane durst steer me when he was in power. But we live on an
outside bit of Tillietudlem land, and the estate was sair plea'd between Leddy Margaret Bellenden
and the present laird, Basil Olifant, and Lord Evandale backed the auld leddy for love o' her
daughter Miss Edith, as the country said, ane o' the best and
bonniest lassies in Scotland.

This is an atom: 
But they behuved to gie way, and Basil gat the Castle and land, and on the back o' that came the
Revolution, and wha to turn coat faster than the laird? for he said he had been a true Whig
a' the time, and turned papist only for fashion's sake. And then he got favour, and Lord
Evandale's head was under water; for he was ower proud and manfu' to bend to every blast o' wind,
though mony a ane may ken as weel as me that be his ain principles as they might, he was nae
ill friend to our folk when he could protect us, and far kinder than Basil Olifant, that aye
keepit the cobble head doun the stream. But he was set by and ill looked on, and his word
ne'er asked; and then Basil, wha's a revengefu' man, set himsell to vex him in a' shapes, and
especially by oppressing and despoiling the auld blind widow, Bessie Maclure, that saved
Lord Evandale's life, and that he was sae kind to. But he's mistaen if that's his end; for it
will be lang or Lord Evandale hears a word frae me about the selling my kye for rent or e'er
it was due, or the putting the dragoons on me when the country's quiet, or onything else that will
vex him,--I can bear my ain burden patiently, and warld's loss is the least part o't."
Astonished and interested at this picture of patient, grateful, and
high-minded resignation, Morton could not help bestowing an execration
upon the poor-spirited rascal who had taken such a dastardly course
of vengeance.

This is an atom: 
"Dinna curse him, sir," said the old woman; "I have heard a good man say that a curse was like a
stone flung up to the heavens, and maist like to return on the head that sent it. But if
ye ken Lord Evandale, bid him look to himsell, for I hear strange words pass atween the sodgers
that are lying here, and his name is often mentioned; and the tane o' them has been twice up
at Tillietudlem. He's a kind of favourite wi' the laird, though he was in former times ane o'
the maist cruel oppressors ever rade through a country (out-taken Sergeant Bothwell),--they ca'
him Inglis."
"I have the deepest interest in Lord Evandale's safety," said Morton, "and you may depend on
my finding some mode to apprise him of these suspicious circumstances. And, in return, my good
friend, will you indulge me with another question? Do you know anything of Quintin Mackell of Irongray?"

This is an atom: 
"Do I know whom?" echoed the blind woman, in a tone of great surprise and alarm.

This is an atom: 
"Quintin Mackell of Irongray," repeated Morton.

This is an atom: 
"Is there anything so alarming in the sound of that name?"

This is an atom: 
"Na, na," answered the woman, with hesitation; "but to hear him asked after by a stranger and
a sodger,--Gude protect us, what mischief is to come next!"
"None by my means, I assure you," said Morton; "the subject of my inquiry has nothing to fear
from me if, as I suppose, this Quintin Mackell is the same with John Bal-----."
"Do not mention his name," said the widow, pressing his lips with her fingers. "I see you have
his secret and his pass-word, and I'll be free wi' you. But, for God's sake, speak lound and
low. In the name of Heaven, I trust ye seek him not to his hurt! Ye said ye were a sodger?"
"I said truly; but one he has nothing to fear from. I commanded a party at Bothwell Bridge."
"Indeed?" said the woman. "And verily there is something in your voice I can trust. Ye speak
prompt and readily, and like an honest man."
"I trust I am so," said Morton.

This is an atom: 
"But nae displeasure to you, sir, in thae waefu' times," continued Mrs. Maclure, "the hand of
brother is against brother, and he fears as mickle almaist frae
this Government as e'er he did frae the auld persecutors."

This is an atom: 
"Indeed?" said Morton, in a tone of inquiry; I was not aware of that. But I am only just now
returned from abroad."
"I'll tell ye," said the blind woman, first assuming an attitude of listening that showed how
effectually her powers of collecting intelligence had been transferred from the eye to the
ear; for, instead of casting a glance of circumspection around, she stooped her face, and
turned her head slowly around, in such a manner as to insure that
there was not the slightest sound stirring in the neighbourhood,
and then continued,--"I'll tell ye.

This is an atom: 
Ye ken how he has laboured to raise up again the Covenant, burned,
broken, and buried in the hard hearts and selfish devices of this
stubborn people.

This is an atom: 
Now, when he went to Holland, far from the countenance and thanks of the great, and the
comfortable fellowship of the godly, both whilk he was in right to expect, the Prince of Orange
wad show him no favour, and the ministers no godly communion.

This is an atom: 
This was hard to bide for ane that had suffered and done mickle,--ower mickle, it may be; but
why suld I be a judge? He came back to me and to the auld place o' refuge that had often received
him in his distresses, mair especially before the great day of victory at Drumclog, for I
sail ne'er forget how he was bending hither of a' nights in the year on that e'ening after the
play when young Milnwood wan the popinjay; but I warned him off for that time."
"What!" exclaimed Morton, "it was you that sat in your red cloak by the high-road, and told
him there was a lion in the path?"
"In the name of Heaven! wha are ye?" said the old woman, breaking off her narrative in astonishment.

This is an atom: 
"But be wha ye may," she continued, resuming it with tranquillity, "ye
    can ken naething waur o' me than that I hae been willing to save
    the life o' friend and foe."
    "I know no ill of you, Mrs. Maclure, and I mean no ill by
    you; I only wished to show you that I know so much of this person's
    affairs that I might be safely intrusted with the rest. Proceed,
    if you please, in your narrative."
    "There is a strange command in your voice," said the blind
    woman, "though its tones are sweet.

This is an atom: 
I have little mair to say. The Stewarts hae been dethroned, and William and Mary reign in their
stead; but nae mair word of the Covenant than if it were a dead letter. They hae taen the indulged
clergy, and an Erastian General Assembly of the ante pure and triumphant Kirk of Scotland,
even into their very arms and bosoms. Our faithfu' champions o' the testimony agree e'en waur
wi' this than wi' the open tyranny and apostasy of the persecuting
times, for souls are hardened and deadened, and the mouths of fasting
multitudes are crammed wi' fizenless bran instead of the sweet word
in season; and mony an hungry, starving creature, when he sits down
on a Sunday forenoon to get something that might warm him to the
great work, has a dry clatter o' morality driven about his lugs,
and--"
"In short," said Morton, desirous to stop a discussion which the
good old woman, as enthusiastically attached to her religious
profession as to the duties of humanity, might probably have indulged
longer,--"In short, you are not disposed to acquiesce in this new
government, and Burley is of the same opinion?"

This is an atom: 
"Many of our brethren, sir, are of belief we fought for the Covenant, and fasted and prayed and
suffered for that grand national league, and now we are like neither to see nor hear tell of
that which we suffered and fought and fasted and prayed for. And anes it was thought something might
be made by bringing back the auld family on a new bargain and a new bottom, as, after a',
when King James went awa, I understand the great quarrel of the English against him was in behalf
of seven unhallowed prelates; and sae, though ae part of our people were free to join wi' the
present model, and levied an armed regiment under the Yerl of Angus, yet our honest friend,
and others that stude up for purity of doctrine and freedom of conscience, were determined
to hear the breath o' the Jacobites before they took part again them, fearing to fa' to the
ground like a wall built with unslaked mortar, or from sitting between twa stools."
"They chose an odd quarter," said Morton, "from which to expect freedom of conscience and purity of
doctrine."
"Oh, dear sir!" said the landlady, "the natural day-spring rises
in the east, but the spiritual dayspring may rise in the north, for
what we blinded mortals ken."
"And Burley went to the north to seek it?" replied the guest.
"Truly ay, sir; and he saw Claver'se himsell, that they ca' Dundee
now."
"What!" exclaimed Morton, in amazement; "I would have sworn that
meeting would have been the last of one of their lives."
"Na, na, sir; in troubled times, as I understand," said Mrs. Maclure,
"there's sudden changes,--Montgomery and Ferguson and mony ane mair
that were King James's greatest faes are on his side now. Claver'se
spake our friend fair, and sent him to consult with Lord Evandale.
But then there was a break-off, for Lord Evandale wadna look at,
hear, or speak wi' him; and now he's anes wud and aye waur, and
roars for revenge again Lord Evandale, and will hear nought of
onything but burn and slay.
And oh, thae starts o' passion! they unsettle his mind, and gie the
Enemy sair advantages."
"The enemy?" said Morton; "What enemy?"
"What enemy? Are ye acquainted familiarly wi' John Balfour o' Burley,
and dinna ken that he has had sair and frequent combats to sustain
against the Evil One? Did ye ever see him alone but the Bible was
in his hand, and the drawn sword on his knee? Did ye never sleep
in the same room wi' him, and hear him strive in his dreams with
the delusions of Satan? Oh, ye ken little o' him if ye have seen
him only in fair daylight; for nae man can put the face upon his
doleful visits and strifes that he can do. I hae seen him, after
sic a strife of agony, tremble that an infant might hae held him,
while the hair on his brow was drapping as fast as ever my puir
thatched roof did in a heavy rain."At the present time we hear that you have
made forcible entry into their city, some of you, and are quartered in the houses, besides
taking forcibly from the Cotyorite estates whatever you need, by hook and by crook. Now against
these things we enter protest. If you mean to go on so doing, you will drive us to make friends
with Corylas and the Paphlagonians, or any one else we can find."

This is an atom: 
To meet these charges Xenophon, on behalf of the soldiers, rose and said: "As to ourselves,
men of Sinope, having got so far, we are well content to have saved our bodies and our arms.
Indeed it was impossible at one and the same moment to keep our enemies at bay and to despoil
them of their goods and chattels. And now, since we have reached Hellenic cities, how has it
fared with us? At Trapezus they gave us a market, and we paid for our provisions at a fair
market price. In return for the honour they did us, and the gifts of hospitality they gave
the army, we requited them with honour. Where the barbarian was friendly to them, we stayed
our hands from injury; or under their escort, we did damage to their enemies to the utmost
of our power. Ask them, what sort of people they found us. They are here, some of them, to
answer for themselves. Their fellow-citizens and the state of Trapezus, for friendship's sake,
have sent them with us to act as our guides.

This is an atom: 
"But wherever we come, be it foreign or Hellenic soil, and find no market for provisions, we
are wont to help ourselves, not out of insolence but from necessity. There have been tribes
like the Carduchians, the Taochians, the Chaldaeans, which, albeit they were not subject to
the great king, yet were no less formidable than independent. These we had to bring over by
our arms. The necessity of getting provisions forced us; since they refused to offer us a market.
Whereas some other folk, like the Macrones, in spite of their being barbarians, we regarded
as our friends, simply because they did provide us with the best market in their power, and
we took no single   18 thing of theirs by force. But, to come to these Cotyorites, whom you
claim to be your people, if we have taken aught from them, they have themselves to blame, for
they did not deal with us as friends, but shut their gates in our faces. They would neither
welcome us within nor furnish us with a market without. The only justification they alleged
was that your governor (2) had authorised this conduct.

This is an atom: 
(2) Lit. "harmost". The term, denoting properly a governor of the
    islands and foreign cities sent out by the Lacedaemonians during
    their supremacy, came, it would seem, to be adopted by other Greek
    communities under somewhat similar circumstances. Cotyora receives
    a harmost from her mother-city, Sinope. For the Greek colonies
    here mentioned, see Kiepert's "Man. Anct. Geog." (Engl. tr., Mr.
    G. A. Macmillan), p. 63.

This is an atom: 
"As to your assertion," he continued, turning to Hecatonymus, "that we have got in by force
and have taken up quarters, this is what we did. We requested them to receive our sick and
wounded under cover; and when they refused to open their gates, we walked in where the place
itself invited us. All the violence we have committed amounts to this, that our sick folk are
quartered under cover, paying for their expenses, and we keep a sentry at the gates, so that
our sick and wounded may not lie at the mercy of your governor, but we may have it in our power
to remove them whenever we like. The rest of us, you observe, are camping under the canopy
of heaven, in regular rank and file, and we are ready to requite kindness with kindness, but
to repel evil vigorously. And as for your threat," he said, once again turning to the spokesman,
"that you will, if it suits you, make alliance with Corylas and the Paphlagonians to attack
us, for our part, we have no objection to fighting both sets of you, if so be we must; we have
already fought others many times more numerous than you. Besides, 'if it suits us,' as you
put it, to make the Paphlagonian our friend (report says that he has a hankering after your
city and some other places on the seaboard), we can enhance the value of our friendship by
helping to win for him what he covets."

This is an atom: 
Thereupon the ambassadors showed very plainly their annoyance with Hecatonymus, on account
of the style of his remarks, and one of them stept forward to explain that their intention
in coming was not at all to raise a war, but on the contrary to demonstrate their friendliness.
24 "And if you come to Sinope itself," the speaker continued, "we will welcome you there with
gifts of hospitality. Meanwhile we will enjoin upon the citizens of this place to give you
what they can; for we can see that every word of what you say is true." Thereupon the Cotyorites
sent gifts of hospitality, and the generals of the Hellenes entertained the ambassadors of
the Sinopeans. Many and friendly were the topics of conversation; freely flowed the talk on
things in general; and, in particular, both parties were able to make inquiries and satisfy
their curiosity concerning the remaining portion of the march.

This is an atom: 
VI

This is an atom: 
Such was the conclusion of that day. On the following day the generals  1 summoned an assembly
of the soldiers, when it was resolved to invite the men of Sinope, and to take advice with
them touching the remainder of the journey. In the event of their having to continue it on
foot, the Sinopeans through their acquaintance with Paphlagonia would be useful to them; while,
if they had to go by sea, the services of the same people would be at a premium; for who but
they could furnish ships sufficient for the army? Accordingly, they summoned their ambassadors,
and took counsel with them, begging them, on the strength of the sacred ties which bind Hellenes
to Hellenes, to inaugurate the good reception they had spoken of, by present kindliness and
their best advice.

This is an atom: 
Hecatonymus rose and wished at once to offer an apology with regard to what he had said about
the possibility of making friends with the Paphlagonians. "The words were not intended," he
said, "to convey a threat, as though they were minded to go to war with the Hellenes, but as
meaning rather: albeit we have it in our power to be friendly with the barbarians, we will
choose the Hellenes." Then, being urged to aid them by some advice, with a pious ejaculation,
he commenced: "If I bestow upon you the best counsel I am able, God grant that blessings in
abundance may descend on me; but if the contrary, may evil betide    4 me! 'Sacred counsel
(1),' as the saying goes--well, sirs, if ever the saying held, it should hold I think to-day;
when, if I be proved to have given you good counsel, I shall not lack panegyrists, or if evil,
your imprecations will be many-tongued.

This is an atom: 
(1) Cf. Plato, "Theages," 122.

This is an atom: 
"As to trouble, I am quite aware, we shall have much more trouble if you are conveyed by sea,
for we must provide the vessels; whereas, if you go by land, all the fighting will evolve on
you. Still, let come what may, it behoves me to state my views. I have an intimate acquaintance
with the country of the Paphlagonians and their power. The country possesses the two features
of hill and vale, that is to say, the fairest plains and the highest mountains. To begin with
the mountains, I know the exact point at which you must make your entry. It is precisely where
the horns of a mountain tower over both sides of the road. Let the merest handful of men occupy
these and they can hold the pass with ease; for when that is done not all the enemies in the
world could effect a passage. I could point out the whole with my finger, if you like to send
any one with me to the scene.

This is an atom: 
"So much for the mountain barrier. Shall I venture to assert, that for this we are indebted
to the charmed light cast around a noble and ancient pastime by the antiquary, poet, and
romance-writer of modern times? But to return, the Scottish archers were first formed into
a company and obtained a charter, granting them great privileges,
under the reign of queen Anne, for which they were to pay to the
crown, annually, a pair of barbed arrows.

This is an atom: 
One of these allowances was, that they might _meet and go forth under their officer's conduct,
in military form, in manner of weapon-showing, as often as they should think convenient_. "But
they have made no public parade since 1743,"[3] owing, probably, to the state of parties in Edinburgh,
for their attachment to the Stuart family was well understood, and falling under the suspicion
of the British government after the rebellion of 1745, they were watched, "and spies appointed
to frequent their company." The company possess a house built by themselves, termed Archers'
Hall. All their business is transacted by a president and six counsellors, who are nominated by
the members at large, and have authority to admit or reject candidates _ad libitum_. The
number of this association is now very great, having been of late years much increased; they
have standards, with appropriate emblems and mottoes, and shoot for several prizes annually;
amongst these are a silver bowl and arrows, which, by a singular regulation, "are retained by
the successful candidate only one year, when he appends a medal to them; and as these prizes
are of more than a hundred years standing, the number of medals
now attached to them are very curious

This is an atom: 
."
[3] Their part in the procession formed to welcome our monarch to his Scottish metropolis, should be
excepted.

This is an atom: 
To this notice may I be permitted to subjoin a few stanzas? Old Izaak Walton hath put songs
and sylvan poesy in plenty into the mouths of his anglers and rural _dramatis personae_, and shall
_I_ be blamed for following, in all humility, his illustrious example? Perchance--but hold!

This is an atom: 
One fact we plainly recognise, strength is everything to us. So long
as we have the mastery, we shall be able to protect ourselves and get provisions; but if we
are once caught at the mercy of our foes, it is plain, we shall be reduced to slavery." On
hearing this the ambassadors bade them send an embassy, which they did, to wit, Callimachus
the Arcadian, and Ariston the Athenian, and Samolas the Achaean.

This is an atom: 
So these set off, but meanwhile a thought shaped itself in the mind of Xenophon, as there before
his eyes lay that vast army of Hellene hoplites, and that other array of peltasts, archers,
and slingers, with cavalry to boot, and all in a state of thorough efficiency from long practice,
hardened veterans, and all collected in Pontus, where to raise so large a force would cost
a mint of money. Then the idea dawned upon him: how noble an opportunity to acquire new territory
and  15 power for Hellas, by the founding of a colony--a city of no mean size, moreover, said
he to himself, as he reckoned up their own numbers--and besides themselves a population planted
on the shores of Pontus. Thereupon he summoned Silanus the Ambraciot, the soothsayer of Cyrus
above mentioned, and before breathing a syllable to any of the soldiers, he consulted the victims
by sacrifice.

This is an atom: 
But Silanus, in apprehension lest these ideas might embody themselves, and the army be permanently
halted at some point or other, set a tale going among the men, to the effect that Xenophon
was minded to detain the army and found a city in order to win himself a name and acquire power,
Silanus himself being minded to reach Hellas with all possible speed, for the simple reason
that he had still got the three thousand darics presented to him by Cyrus on the occasion of
the sacrifice when he hit the truth so happily about the ten days. The oar, the rifle and the racer
are as impatient of walls as the plough and its new-fangled allies. They demand elbow-room
for the display of their powers, and the Commission was fain to
let their votaries tempt it to pass the confines of its territory.The next incident was that Timasion the Dardanian,
with Thorax the Boeotian, addressed themselves to some Heracleot and Sinopean traders who had
come to Cotyora, and told them that if they did not find means to furnish the army with pay
sufficient to keep them in provisions on the homeward voyage, all that great force would most
likely settle down permanently in Pontus. Dr. Beeton, in a letter to Dr. Mitchill of New York,
dated 19th of July, 1824, states, that the beech tree (that is, the broad leaved or American
variety of _Fagus sylvatiea_,) is never known to be assailed by atmospheric electricity.
But if you like to select some place on the inhabited seaboard of the Black
Sea which may take your fancy and there put in, this is open to you to do. Those who like to
go home, go; those who care to stay here, stay. You have got    20 vessels now, so that you
can make a sudden pounce upon any point you choose.'"

This is an atom: 
The merchants went off with this tale and reported it to every city they came to in turn, nor
did they go alone, but Timasion the Dardanian sent a fellow-citizen of his own, Eurymachus,
with the Boeotian Thorax, to repeat the same story. So when it reached the ears of the men
of Sinope and the Heracleots, they sent to Timasion and pressed him to accept of a gratuity,
in return for which he was to arrange for the departure of the troops. Timasion was only too
glad to hear this, and he took the opportunity when the soldiers were convened in meeting to
make the following remarks: "Soldiers," he said, "do not set your thoughts on staying here;
let Hellas, and Hellas only, be the object of your affection, for I am told that certain persons
have been sacrificing on this very question, without saying a word to you. One evening,
retreating on my own line, I came upon some little village--can't remember the name just now,
but you know the sort of thing--typical Somme hamlet, a smear of brick-dust with a big
notice-board on top, saying, 'THIS IS LE SARS,' or 'POZIÈRES,' or whatever its name was.
Anyway, in this village I found a Divisional H.Q., four Brigade H.Q.'s, and oddities of all
sorts sitting one on top of t'other waiting for the next thing to happen. The next thing was
a single wounded lancer who happened in about four in the morning with the glad tidings that Bosch
tanks were advancing on us".

This is an atom: 
Questioned further he admitted that he had only actually seen one and
    that in the dark.
    It
    contained more grains of gold than the daric.

This is an atom: 
(3) Of Dercylidas we hear more in the "Hellenica." In B.C. 411 he was
    harmost at Abydos; in B.C. 399 he superseded Thimbron in Asia
    Minor; and was himself superseded by Agesilaus in B.C. 396.

This is an atom: 
No sooner had he ceased than up got Thorax the Boeotian. This was a man who had a standing
battle with Xenophon about the generalship of the army. What he said was that, if they once
got fairly out of the Euxine, there was the Chersonese, a beautiful and prosperous country,
where they could settle or not, as they chose. Those who liked could stay; and those who liked
could return to their homes; how ridiculous   25 then, when there was so much territory in
Hellas and to spare, to be poking about (4) in the land of the barbarian. "But until you find
yourselves there," he added, "I, no less than Timasion, can guarantee you regular pay." This
he said, knowing what promises had been made Timasion by the men of Heraclea and Sinope to
induce them to set sail.

This is an atom: 
(4) The word {masteuein} occurs above, and again below, and in other
    writings of our author. It is probably Ionic or old Attic, and
    occurs in poetry.

This is an atom: 
Meanwhile Xenophon held his peace. Then up got Philesius and Lycon, two Achaeans: "It was monstrous,"
they said, "that Xenophon should be privately persuading people to stop there, and consulting
the victims for that end, without letting the army into the secret, or breathing a syllable
in public about the matter." These are offered by associations, and in some cases individuals.
They are not all, like the regular awards, purely honorary. They lean to the pecuniary form,
those particularly which are offered in different branches of agriculture.
Competition among poultry-growers, manufacturers of butter, reaping-and threshing-machines,
cotton-planters, etc. is stimulated by money-prizes reaching in all some six or eight thousand
dollars. Agricultural machinery needs the open field for its proper testing, and cannot
operate satisfactorily in Machinery Hall. Without a sight of our harvest-fields and threshing-floors
foreigners would carry away an incomplete impression of our industrial methods, the farm being
our great factory.That was a happy discovery
on his part, seeing that he was himself conspiring at the moment to traduce me before you;
since it was he who set the tale going that I had actually made up my mind to carry out these
projects without procuring your consent. Now, for my part, if I saw that you     30 were in
any difficulties, I should set myself to discover how you might capture a city, on the understanding
of course that all who wished might sail away at once, leaving those who did not wish, to follow
at a later date, with something perhaps in their pockets to benefit their friends at home.
Now, however, as I see that the men of Heraclea and Sinope are to send you ships to assist
you to sail away, and more than one person guarantees to give you regular monthly pay, it is,
I admit, a rare chance to be safely piloted to the haven of our hopes, and at the same time
to receive pay for our preservation. For myself I have done with that dream, and to those,
who came to me to urge these projects, my advice is to have done with them. In fact, this is
my view. As long as you stay together united as to-day, you will command respect and procure
provisions; for might certainly exercises a right over what belongs to the weaker. But once
broken up, with your force split into bits, you will neither be able to get subsistence, nor
indeed will you get off without paying dearly for it. In fact, my resolution coincides precisely
with yours. It is that we should set off for Hellas, and if any one stops behind, or is caught
deserting before the whole army is in safety, let him be judged as an evil-doer. Pray let all
who are in favour of this proposition hold up their hands."

This is an atom: 
They all held them up; only Silanus began shouting and vainly striving to maintain the right
of departure for all who liked to depart. The lusty undergraduates of both sides of Anglo-Saxondom
escort it unresistingly down from its airy halls to the blue bosom of the Schuylkill, while
"teams" picked from eighty English-speaking millions beckon it across the Jerseys to Creedmoor.
And the horse--is he to call in vain? Is a strait-laced negative from the Commission to echo
back his neigh? Is the blood of Eclipse and Godolphin to stagnate under a ticket in "Class
630, horses, asses and mules"? Why, the very ponies in front of Memorial Hall pull with
extra vim against their virago jockeys and flap their little brass wings in indignation at
the thought. The thoroughbred will be heard from, and the judges that sit on him will be
"experts in their department."
This done they came in a body to Xenophon
and said that       36 their views were changed. As they had now got the ships, they thought
it best to sail to the Phasis, and seize the territory of the Phasians (whose present king
was a descendant of Aeetes (5)). Xenophon's reply was curt:--Not one syllable would he have
to say himself to the army in this matter, "But," he added, "if you like, you can summon an
assembly and have your say." Thereupon Timasion the Dardanian set forth as his opinion:--It
were best to hold no parliament at present, but first to go and conciliate, each of them, his
own officers. Thus they went away and proceeded to execute their plans.

This is an atom: 
(5) Aeetes is the patronym of the kings of Colchis from mythical times
    onwards; e.g. Medea was the daughter of Aeetes.

This is an atom: 
VII

***************************************************************************