Document Name: /part2/suspicious-document03855.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 124/124
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/124

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿It is hardly wonderful that such a method should incur the charge of sentimentalism. "It would
be so nice to believe it, therefore it must be true," sounds like a shameless abandonment of
reasonableness. The fact that a belief is "consoling," quite independently of its truth or
falsehood, creates a bias towards its acceptance. That it is pleasant to believe oneself very
clever and competent will incline one to that belief until something important depends, not
on our thinking ourselves so, but on our being so. Before an examination, the wish to succeed
will make me sceptical about my prospects, much as I should like to think them the brightest;
afterwards, when self-deception can only console and can do no harm, I shall be credulous of
any flattery that is offered me. In one case, my interest depends upon the facts, and therefore
the wish to believe makes me critical and even sceptical; in the other, on my belief concerning
the facts, and the wish to believe, makes me uncritical and credulous.

This is an atom: 
It was seemingly a bold and hazardous venture to justify this same credulity, and to affirm
that an argument could be drawn from the wish to believe in just those cases where its influence
would seem most suspicious; yet this was practically what the new apologetic amounted to. It
was an argument from the utility of beliefs to their truth; from the fact that certain subjective
convictions produced good results, to the correspondence of such convictions with objective
reality. The advantages to the individual and to society of a firm belief in God the righteous
Judge, in the sanction of eternal reward and penalty, in the eventual adjustment of all inequalities,
in the reversible character of sin through repentance, in the divine authority of conscience,
of Christianity, of the Catholic Church, are to a great extent independent of the truth of
those beliefs. No amount of hypnotic suggestion will enable a man to subsist upon cinders,
under the belief that they are a very nutritious diet; for the effect depends upon their actual
nature, and not wholly upon his belief concerning their nature; but the salutary fear of Hell
or hope of Heaven, depends not on the existence of either state, but on our belief in its existence.
The fact that the denial of these and many similar beliefs would bring chaos into our spiritual
and moral life, that it would extinguish hopes which often alone make life bearable, that it
would issue for society at large in such a grey, meaningless, uninspired existence as Mr. F.
W. Myers prognosticates in his admirable essay on "The Disillusionment of France," [2] all
this and much more makes it our interest, if not our duty, to cling to such convictions at
all costs. "If these things are not true, it might be said, then life is chaos; and if life
be chaos, what does truth matter? Why may not such useful illusions and self-deceptions be
fostered? If we are dreaming, let our dreams be the pleasantest possible!"

This is an atom: 
Nor can it be urged that though some part of our interest thus depends on the beliefs, rather
than on their being true, yet the consequences of self-deception are so momentous, as to create
a spirit of criticism to balance or over-balance the said bias of credulity. For though the
consequences of denial are disastrous if the beliefs are true, yet if they are false, the ill-consequences
of belief are almost insignificant. It is sometimes said too hastily that if religion be an
illusion, then religious people lose both this life and the next; and it is assumed that an
unrestrained devotion to pleasure would secure a happiness which faith requires us to forego.
But unless we take a gross, and really unthinkable view of the homogeneity of all happiness,
and reduce its differences to degree and quantity, the shallowness of the preceding objection
will be apparent. It is only through restraint that the higher kinds of temporal happiness
are reached, and as confusions are cleared away in process of discussion, it becomes patent
that such restraint finds its motive directly or indirectly in religion. When the religious
influence with which irreligious society is saturated, has exhausted itself, and idealism is
no more, the unrestrained egoistic pursuit of enjoyment must tend to its steady diminution
in quantity, and its depreciation in kind. The sorrow and pain entailed by fidelity to the
Christian ideal is, on the whole, immeasurably less in the vast majority of cases than that
attendant on the struggles of unqualified selfishness, while the capacities for the higher
happiness are steadily raised and largely satisfied by hope and even by some degree of present
fruition. Even vice would be in many ways sauceless and insipid in the absence of faith. Who
does not remember the old cynic's testimony (in the "New Republic") to the piquancy lent by
Christianity to many a sin, otherwise pointless. If the moralist distinguishes between actions
that are evil because they are forbidden, and those that are forbidden because they are evil,
the libertine has a counter-distinction between those that are forbidden because they are pleasant,
and those that are pleasant because they are forbidden. St. Paul himself is explicit enough
as to this effect of the law.

This is an atom: 
Look at it how we will, even were religion unfounded our life would on the whole gain in fulness
far more than it would lose, by our believing in religion. Hence some of our more thoughtful
agnostics, however unable themselves to find support in what they deem an illusion, are quite
willing to acknowledge the part religion has played in the past in the evolution of rational
life, and to look upon it as a necessary factor in the earlier stages of that process whose
place is to be taken hereafter by some as yet undefined substitute. If indeed Nature thus works
by illusions and justifies the lying means by the benevolent end, it is hard to believe in
a moral government of the universe, or to hope that an "absolute morality"--righteousness for
its own sake--will be the outcome of such disreputable methods. But till the illusion of "absolute
morality" is strong enough to take care of itself, and has passed from the professors to the
populace, it is plainly for the interest and happiness of individuals and of society to hold
fast to religion.

This is an atom: 
Undoubtedly then the advantages resulting from a belief in religion, whether valid or illusory,
are such as to incline not only the higher and more unselfish minds, but even those which are
more prudential and self-regarding, to wish to hold that belief--to be unwilling to hear arguments
against it. But among the former class will be found many intellectually conscientious and
even scrupulous persons, whom the recognition of this inevitable bias will drive to an extreme
of caution. Not so much because the facts believed-in are of such intense moment, but rather
because the belief itself, whether true or false, is so consoling and helpful, that there seems
to them a danger of self-deception just proportioned to their wish to believe.

This is an atom: 
It were then no small rest and relief to such, could it be shown that what they deem a reason
for doubt, is really a reason for belief; that the welcome which all that is best in them gives
to a belief, affords some sort of philosophical justification thereof.

This is an atom: 
This particular argument had undoubtedly a more favourable hearing in the age of Chateaubriand,
when unbelief stopped short at the threshold of what was called "Natural Religion," and the
apologist's task was confined to the establishment of revelation. "It is now pretty generally
admitted," says the author of _Contemporary Evolution_, "with regard to Christianity and theism
that the arguments really telling against the first, are in their logical consequences fatal
also to the second, and that a _Deus Unus, Remunerator_ once admitted, an antecedent probability
for a revelation must be conceded."

This is an atom: 
Given an intelligent and benevolent author of the universe, it is not perhaps very difficult
to show that any further religious belief approximates to the truth in the measure that it
satisfies the more highly developed rational needs of mankind. It is not seriously denied any
longer that religion is an instinct with man, however it may be lacking in some individuals
or dormant in others. We have savages at both ends of the scale of civilization, but man is
none the less a political creature; nor does the existence of idiots and deaf mutes and criminals
at all affect the fact that he is a reasoning and speaking and ethical animal. As soon as he
wakes to consciousness, he feels that he is part of a whole, one of a multitude; and that as
he is related to his fellow-parts--equals or inferiors--so also is he related to the Whole
which is above him and greater than all put together. Religion, taken subjectively, in its
loosest sense, is a man's mental and moral attitude in regard to real or imaginary superhuman
beings--a definition which includes pantheism, polytheism, monotheism; moral, non-moral, and
immoral religions; which prescinds from materialist or spiritualist conceptions of the universe.
And by a religion in the objective sense, so far as true or false can be predicated of it,
we mean a body of beliefs intended to regulate and correct man's subjective religion. It is
to such systems and their parts that we think the above test of "adaptability" maybe applied
as we have stated it.

This is an atom: 
We must of course assume that our distinction of higher from lower states of rational development
is valid; that we can really attach some absolute meaning to the terms "progress" and "decline;"
that there is some vaguely conceived standard of human excellence which such terms refer to.
Else we are flung into the very whirlpool of scepticism. Measured back from infinity it may
be infinitesimal, but measured forward from zero, the difference of mental and, partly, of
moral culture between ourselves and the aborigines of Australia is considerable, and is really
to our advantage. Now if a given religion or religious belief suggests itself more readily,
or when suggested commends itself more cordially in the measure that men's spiritual needs
are more highly developed; if, furthermore, it tends to make men still better and to raise
their desires still higher so as to prepare the way for a yet fuller conception of religious
truth, it may be said to be adapted to human needs; and it is from such adaptability that we
argue its approach to the truth. We say "its approach," for all our ideas of the Whole, of
the superhuman, of those beings with which religion deals, are necessarily analogous and imperfect.
What is admitted by all with regard to the strict mysteries of the Christian faith is in a
great measure to be extended to the central or fundamental ideas of all religion. They are
at best woefully inadequate, and if the unity between the parts of an idea be organic and not
merely mechanical, they must be regarded as containing false mingled with true.[3] Still some
analogies are less imperfect, less mingled with fallacy than others, and there is room for
indefinite approximation towards an unattainable exactitude. For example, assuming theism,
as we do in the argument under consideration, it is evident that man conceives the superhuman
object of his fear and worship more truly as personal than as impersonal; as spiritual than
as embodied; as one or few than as many; as infinite than as finite; as creator than as maker;
as moral than as non-moral or immoral; as both transcendent and immanent than as either alone.
If then it appears that as man's intelligence and morality develop in due proportion, he advances
from a material polytheistic immoral conception of the All, to a spiritual and moral monotheism,
it may be claimed that the latter is a less inadequate conception. And similarly with regard
to other dependent religious beliefs which usually radiate from the central notion. It will
be seen that we do not argue from the self-determined wishes or desires of any individual or
class of individuals to their possible fulfilment,--to the existence in Nature of some supply
answering to that demand; we do not argue that because many men or all men desire to fly, flying
must for that reason alone be possible. We speak of the needs of man's nature, not of this
individual's nature; of needs consequent on what man is made, and not on what he has made himself;
of those wants and exigencies which if unsatisfied or insatiable must leave his nature not
merely negatively imperfect and finite, but positively defective and as inexplicable as a lock
without a key--not necessarily, of needs felt at all times by every man, but of those which
manifest themselves naturally and regularly at certain stages of moral and social development;
just as the bodily appetites assert themselves under certain conditions not always given.

This is an atom: 
Now there is one form in which this argument from adaptability is somewhat too hastily applied
and which it is well to guard against. Were we to find a key accommodated to the wards of a
most complicated lock, we should be justified in concluding, with a certainty proportioned
to the complexity of the lock, that both originated with one and the same mind; and so, it
is urged, if a religion, say Christianity, answers to the needs of human nature, we may conclude
that it is from the Author of human nature with a certainty increasing as it is seen to answer
to the higher and more complex developments of the soul.

This is an atom: 
Now if, like the key in our illustration, the religion in question were something given _in
rerum natura_ independent of human origination in any form, this argument would be practically
irresistible. That besides those beliefs which lead man on to an ever fuller understanding
of his better self, and stimulate and direct his moral progress, Christianity imposes others
more principal, of which man as yet has no exigency, and which hint at some future order of
existence that new faculties will disclose--all this, in no wise makes the argument inapplicable.
The whole system of beliefs is accepted for the sake, and on the credit, of that part which
so admirably unlocks the soul to her own gaze. "Now are we the sons of God, but it doth not
yet appear what we shall be;" if besides satisfying our present ideal of religion, Christianity
hints at and prepares us for such a transition as that from merely organic to sensitive life,
or from this, to rational life, it rather adds to than detracts from the force of the argument.

This is an atom: 
Yet all this supposes that Christianity is something found by man outside himself, with whose
origination he had nothing to do; but, if this be established, its supernatural origin, and
therefore, supposing theism, its truth, is already proved, and can only receive confirmation
from the argument of adaptability. If the Book of Mormon really came down from Heaven, my conviction
that polygamy is not for the best, would seem a feeble objection against its claims. That the
Judaeo-Christian religion is supernatural and is from without, not only with respect to the
individual but to the race; that it is an external, God-given rule, awakening, explaining,
developing man's natural religious instinct, correcting his own clumsy interpretations thereof,
is just what gives it its claim to pre-eminence over all, even the most highly conceived, man-made
interpretations of the same instinct.

This is an atom: 
Yet though claiming to be a God-made interpretation, it is confessedly through human agency,
through the human mind and lips of the prophets and of Christ that this revelation has come
to us. Moreover, it involves, though it transcends, all those religious beliefs of which human
nature seems exigent and which are, absolutely speaking, attainable by what might be called
the "natural inspiration" of religious genius. Viewing the whole revelation in itself, its
adaptability is evident only in respect to that part which might have originated with those
minds through which it was delivered to us. If the beliefs proposed seem to have anticipated
moral and intellectual needs not felt in the prophet's own age or society, this might be paralleled
from the inspiration of genius in other departments, and could not of itself be regarded as
establishing the _ab extra_ character of the revelation.

This is an atom: 
Plainly, then, so far as a religion claims to be from outside, its adaptability to our religious
and moral instincts may confirm but cannot establish its Divine origin, which, given theism,
is equivalent to its truth. For to show that it is from outside, is to show that it is from God.

This is an atom: 
It is only therefore with regard to man-made interpretations of our spiritual instincts, to
the natural inspirations of religious genius, to the intuitions and even the reasoned inferences
of the conscientious and clean-hearted, that the argument from adaptability can have any independent
value. It is now no longer as one who argues from a comparison of lock and key to their common
authorship; but rather we have a self-conscious lock, pining to be opened, and from a more
or less imperfect self-knowledge dreaming of some sort of key and arguing that in the measure
that its dream is based on true self-knowledge there must be a reality corresponding to it--a
valid argument enough, supposing the locksmith to act on the usual lines and not to be indulging
in a freak.

This is an atom: 
Such, in substance, is the argument from adaptability founded on the assumption of theism and
applied to the criticism or establishment of further religious beliefs. It is indeed somewhat
stronger when we remember that the self-consciousness, with which we fictitiously endowed the
lock, plays chief part in the very design and structure of man; that his self-knowledge, his
moral and religious instincts, his desire and power of interpreting them, are all from the
Author of his nature.

This is an atom: 
Of this difference Tennyson takes note in applying the argument from adaptability to the immortality
of the soul:

This is an atom: 
Thou wilt not leave us in the dust;
  Thou madest man, he knows not why;
  He thinks he was not made to die,
  And Thou hast made him, Thou art just.

This is an atom: 
But so far as the argument presupposes theism it cannot be made to support or even confirm
theism. If, then, we want to make the argument absolutely universal with regard to religious
beliefs--theism included and not presupposed--and so to make it available for apologetic purposes
in regard to those whose doubt is more deep-seated, we must inquire whether any basis can be
found for it in non-theistic philosophy; whether, prescinding from Divine governance and from
an intelligent purpose running through nature, the adaptability of a belief to the higher needs
of mankind can be considered in any way to prove its truth. So far we have only shown that
such a conclusion results from a clearer insight into the theistic conception. Can we show
that it springs, co-ordinately with theism, from some conception prior to both?

This is an atom: 
II.

This is an atom: 
If what is usually understood by "theism" be once granted as a foundation, it is easy to raise
thereon a superstructure of further religious beliefs by means of the argument drawn from their
adaptability to the higher needs of mankind. However individuals may fail, yet it must be allowed
that on the whole the human mind progresses, or tends to progress, from a less to a more perfect
self-knowledge, to a fuller understanding of its own origin, its end and destiny, and of the
kind of life by which that end is to be reached,--that is, if once we admit that man is a self-interpreting
creature, and the work of an intelligent Creator. So far however as the Christian creed exceeds
man's natural exigencies and aspirations, it plainly cannot be subjected to this criterion;
and so far as it includes (while it transcends) the highest form of "natural religion," the
argument from adaptability holds of it only if we suppose Christianity to be a natural product
of the human mind, thus destroying its claim to be from without and from above. But if from
other reasons we know Christianity to be a God-made and not a man-made religion, then, though
its divinity and truth is already proved, yet it is in some sort confirmed and verified by
its adaptability to the demands of our higher nature. In a word, this particular argument holds
strictly only for man's own guesses at religious truth,--for "natural" religions; but for Christianity,
only so far as we deny it to be supernatural as to its content and mode of origination.

This is an atom: 
But so far as this argument presupposes theism, it cannot be made to support or even confirm
theism; if then we wish to make it available for apologetic purposes in regard to those whose
doubt is more deep-seated, we must now inquire whether, prescinding from divine governance
and from finality in nature, the adaptability of a belief (say, in God, or in future retribution)
to the needs of mankind, can be considered in any way as a proof of its truth; whether that
argument can find any deeper mental basis than theism; whether it can be rested on anything
which in the order of our thought is prior to theism so as to support or at least to confirm
theism itself.

This is an atom: 
Our present endeavour is to show that though this argument rests more easily and securely on
theism, yet it need not rest upon it; but springs, co-ordinately with theism, from _any_ conception
of the world that saves us from mental and moral chaos. Hence it confirms theism and is confirmed
by theism; but each is strictly independent of the other and rests on a conception prior to
both; they diverge from one and the same root and then intertwine and support one another.

This is an atom: 
By prescinding from theism I do not mean to exclude or deny it; for it is, as I have just said,
bound up with the same conception from which the "argument from adaptability" is drawn. I only
mean that I do not need to build upon it as on a prior conception; that I can put it aside.
Indeed, of these two off-shoots, theism is less near to the common root, as will appear later.

This is an atom: 
Our limited mind cannot take in at once all the consequences or presuppositions of a thought;
for this would be to know everything; but as with our outward eye we take in the circle of
the horizon bit by bit, so with our mind when we turn to one aspect of an idea we lose sight
of another. Hence in studying some complex organism or mechanism I may be clear about the bearing
of any part on its immediately neighbouring parts, and yet may have no present notion of the
whole; or may prescind entirely from the question of its origin or its purpose. Thus our thoughts
are always unfinished and frayed round the edges, and we do not know how much they involve
and drag along with them. We can think of the mechanism, and the organism, and the design,
without thinking of the mechanist, or the organizer, or the designer; and so in all cases where
two ideas are connected without being actually correlative. What is commonly called a philosophical
proof consists simply in showing us the implications of some part of the general conception
of things that we already hold. It is to force us either to loosen our hold on that part or
else to admit all that it entails by way of consequences or presuppositions; and so to bring
our thoughts into consistency one way or the other. But until something sets our mind in motion
it can rest very comfortably in partial conceptions, without following them out to their results.

This is an atom: 
Now as we can understand a mechanism to the extent of seeing the bearing of part upon part,
and even of all the parts upon the work it does, without going on to think about the designer
or his design; and without explicitly considering it as designed; so we can and do think of
the world and recognize order in it, and see the bearing of part upon part without going back
to God or forward to God's purposes. Indeed, so far as we use the argument from design to prove
the existence of God, it means that we first apprehend this order and regular sequence of events,
and then, as a second and distinct step, put it down to design. For although God is the prior
cause of design and of all creation, yet design and creation is the prior cause of our knowing
God, The conception of a rational and moral world leads us to the conception of a rational
and moral origin, i.e., to theism. Further, it is plain that this same order and regularity
is recognized by many who refuse to see design in it, and who invent other hypotheses to account
for it; and of one of these hypotheses we shall presently speak at length.

This is an atom: 
Now, if I take any single organism and study it carefully, simply as a biologist or physiologist,
I shall recognize in it certain regularities of structure and function and development, upon
which I can found various arguments and predictions. I can argue from its general characteristics,
to the nature of its environment and habits and modes of life; or from its earlier stages,
to what it will be when more fully developed; and these arguments will be quite unaffected
by any theory I may hold as to the origin of these changes, and as to the causes of these adaptations.
The order and regularity on which my predictions are based is an admitted fact. Theism or materialism
are only theories by which that fact is explained. Now, for mind in the abstract, theism is
really as much a presupposition of that fact, as the predicted truth is a consequence of it.
Both are logically connected with it, and yet neither is derived from it through the other.

This is an atom: 
If, however, we cannot thus observe and calculate on certain regularities and tendencies in
the world as we know it, then, not only is the appearance of design and finality an illusion,
not only is that particular argument for theism cut away, but with it goes all scientific certainty,
all that stands between us and the most hopeless mental and moral scepticism.

This is an atom: 
It is not our immediate concern to prove the value of the "argument from adaptability," but
simply to show that it is logically (though not really) unaffected by the question of theism
and finality and design. As long as we admit those same effects and consequences of which design
is one explanation, but of which others are _prima facie_ conceivable; as long as we hold that
the world works on the whole as though it were designed; that the present anticipates and prepares
for the future; that the future and absent can be predicted from the present, so long do we
hold all upon which the "argument of adaptability" is strictly based. And indeed, as has been
said, if once it be admitted that the general progressive tendency on the part of living things
is towards a greater harmony and correspondence with surrounding reality, then that argument
is a more immediate inference from the existence of an orderly world, than is theism.

This is an atom: 
Though both are strictly independent deductions from the same principle (i.e., from an orderly
world), yet theism and the argument from adaptability when once deduced, confirm one another.
For it is not hard to show that theism is better adapted to man's higher needs, than atheism
or polytheism or pantheism; while if theism be once granted, then, as we said in the last section,
the argument from adaptability is much more easily established.

This is an atom: 
There have been at various times several philosophies or attempted explanations of the world,
which have either denied or prescinded from theism and finality. These two conceptions may
be considered as one; for by finality we mean the intelligent direction of means towards a
preconceived end; and therefore to admit a pervading finality, is to imply a theistic origin
and government of the universe.

This is an atom: 
Perhaps, the best and most finished attempt to explain the world independently of finality
is the philosophy of Evolution, so widely popularized in our own day; and since it is in the
region of organic existence, that finalism looks for its chief basis, it is especially by Darwinistic
Evolution that its force is supposed to be destroyed.

This is an atom: 
Any form of "monism" gets rid of finality more easily than does any form of dualism; and again,
any form of materialism, more easily than idealism; and therefore as monistic and materialistic
(at least in some sense of the term), popular Evolutionism is the best plea for non-finalist
philosophy. We propose therefore briefly to examine this philosophy, so far as it claims to
be such, and to see whether it in any way touches the validity of the argument from adaptability.

This is an atom: 
Evolution may be considered both as an empirical fact and as an aetiological theory or philosophy.
Considered as a fact, it is the statement of observed processes, and belongs to positive science
like the observed courses of the planets, or any other observed regularities and uniformities.
Science professes to have found everywhere as far as its experience has extended--in astronomy,
geology, physiology, biology, psychology, ethics, sociology--a uniform process of change from
the simple to the complex, from the indefinite and unstable to the stable and definite; and
with this statement, so far as it can be verified, the positivist should rest content, seeking
no theory, and drawing no generalization. But, the mind cannot hold together such collected
facts without some binding theory, nor even observe a single fact without some preconception
to give meaning to its suggested outlines: for what we really get from our senses bears but
a slight ratio to what we fill in with our mind. Hence, answering to this supposed, but far
from proven, universality of Evolution as a fact,[4] we have a certain philosophy of Evolution
which takes us out of the sphere of facts into that of hypotheses and generalizations, and
tries to give meaning and unity to the positive information that physical science has collected
and classified; to finish, as it were, the suggested curves; to fill up the lacunae of observation;
to extend to the whole world what is known of the part; and perhaps to erect into a cause what
is only an orderly statement of facts. Undoubtedly it is this last fallacy that makes it more
easy for evolutionists to dispense with or ignore finality. Law in its first sense is an expression
of effectual human will. Call Evolution a law and the popular mind will soon vaguely conceive
it as a rule or uniformity resulting from some kind of unconscious will-power at the back of
everything; and this Will-Power stops the gap created in our thought by the exclusion of theism
and finality. This confusion is furthered still more by not distinguishing between the cause
of a fact and the cause of our knowledge of the fact. If I act in willing conformity with the
civil law, I also act in obedience to it, in some way coerced by its authority and its sanctions.
The law is really a cause of my action; because it represents the fixed will and effectual
power of the ruler. But when this conception and name is transferred by analogy to physical
uniformities of action, an event which conforms to the observed law or regularity of sequence,
is not really caused by the law unless we suppose that law to be representative of something
equivalent to a fixed will from which it originates. Yet we say loosely, such an event happens
_in consequence of_ the law of attraction; meaning only, _in conformity with_ the law, so as
to verify the law, to follow from it logically. Thus again the law comes to be mistaken for
an effectual power of some kind, whereas it is merely a sort of regularity that might result
either from an intelligent will or from something equivalent. But in thus adroitly slipping-in
the conception of a governing force or tendency, or even in openly asserting it, with Schopenhauer
or Hartmann, and in explaining the graduated resemblances of species by the origin of one from
the other, and in extending this mode of Evolution in all directions from the known to the
unknown so as to make it pervade the universe, we at once cease to be faithful positivists
and, becoming philosophers, must submit to philosophic criticism, since these problems cannot
be settled merely by an appeal to facts. Thus when Professor Mivart speaks of Evolution as
"the continuous progress of the material universe by the unfolding of latent potentialities
in harmony with a preordained end," the latent potentialities, the preordained end, the procession
of one species from another, the extension of this law to every difference of time and place--all
are matters of hypothesis or intuition; but by no means of exterior observation.

This is an atom: 
The most that observation gives us is the very imperfect suggestion of the track that such
a movement would have left behind it, not unlike the scraps that boys litter along the road
in a paper-chase. Similarly, if in the case of organic Evolution we deny all latent potentialities
and preordained ends and throw the whole burden on accidental variations and natural selection;
if we regard the whole process as no more intelligent or designed than that by which water
seeks and finds its own level; yet as in the case of water we must perforce introduce "a gravitating
tendency," so in the case of living organisms a "persisting" or "struggling tendency," as an
hypothesis to give unity to our facts or to account for their uniformity. But these tendencies
are as little matter of observation as the aforesaid latent potentialities or preordained ends.
In fine, Evolution, whatever form it take, gets rid of theism and finality only by slipping
into their place some tendency or indefinable power which it considers adequate to account
for the facts to be explained.

This is an atom: 
Let us now see if there be room in this philosophy for our argument from adaptability, and
whether it will allow us to infer that because belief in theism and in future retribution are
beliefs postulated by our higher moral aspirations, therefore they answer to reality more or
less approximately; whether, in short, under certain conditions (specified in our last essay)
the wish to believe may be a valid reason for believing.

This is an atom: 
Now Evolution as a philosophy or explanatory hypothesis owes its popularity to its apparent
simplicity. Wrapped in its wordy envelope, the notion as formulated by Spencer needs no subtilty
of apprehension, but only a dictionary. Nor is the Darwinian theory of Natural Selection more
difficult.

This is an atom: 
Other things equal, the simpler hypothesis is to be preferred to the less simple where no proof
can be had of either. But none the less, the simpler may be false and the other true. Cheapness
is no proof of goodness. We are naturally impatient of troublesome and complex theories; but
what we gain in the simplicity of an hypothesis, we commonly lose in the difficulty of getting
the facts to square with it. It is a simple theory that circular motion is the most perfect,
and that the planets being the most perfect bodies must move with the most perfect motion;
but so many epicycles must be introduced to explain apparent exceptions that the modern astronomical
hypothesis, however more complex in statement, is on the whole welcomed as a simplification.
So we are disposed to think it is with regard to the popular form of Evolutionism. Its simplicity
in statement is more than cancelled by its difficulty in application; and at last we are driven
to conceive it in a form which at once deprives it of its title to popularity. So far as it
is simple it is fallacious and proves incoherent on closer inspection, when we try to translate
its terms into clear and distinct ideas; but when we get it into intelligible form it is no
simpler than the theistic hypothesis which it wants to displace, except inasmuch as it prescinds
from the question of origin and last end. But in this, its only intelligible form, it leaves
the argument from adaptability intact, and even requires theism as its rational complement.

This is an atom: 
This is what we must now endeavour to show. We cannot illustrate our contention better than
from the popular simplification of Ethics introduced by Bentham. Taking pleasure as a simple
and ultimate notion he affirms that our conduct is always determined by a balance of pleasure
on one side or the other. The problem of practical ethics is to construct a calculus of pleasures,
a sort of ready-reckoner whereby men may be able to invest in the most profitable course of
action. "When we have a hedonistic calculus with its senior wranglers," says Mr. Bain, "we
shall begin to know whether society admits of being properly reconstructed." [5] It is assumed
that pleasures differ only in quantity, i.e., in intensity, extent, and duration, just as warmth
does, which may be of high or low temperature; diffused over a greater or less extent of body;
and that, for a shorter or a longer time. On this assumption pleasure is every bit as mathematically
measurable as is warmth, the whole difficulty being due to its subjective and therefore inaccessible
nature. Simple in statement, this theory proves in application infinitely complex, and indeed
on closer inspection breaks up into a mere verbal fallacy--as Dr. Martineau, amongst others,
has shown in his _Types of Ethical Theory_. For "pleasure," though one simple word, has an
endless variety of meanings, not indeed wholly disconnected, but bound together only by a certain
kind of analogy. The eye, the ear, the palate, the mind, the heart, have each their proper
pleasure; which is nothing else than the resultant of their perfect operation in response to
the stimulus of some all-satisfying object--a fact which may be expressed differently by different
philosophies, but with substantial identity of meaning. But not till we find some common measure
for sound and colour and flavour and thought and affection, will it be possible to compare
in any hedonistic scales the pleasures they produce. Yet colour is to the eye what music is
to the ear; and therefore the one word pleasure is used not unreasonably of both.

This is an atom: 
Quite similar seems to us the fallacy to which Evolution owes its seeming simplicity and its
popularity. The word "existence" or "life" (which is the existence of organic beings, about
which we are chiefly concerned), is taken as having one homogeneous meaning, like "heat" or
"warmth;" the only difference being quantitative--a difference of intensity, of breadth, of
duration; not a difference of kind such as would destroy all common measure. Life is something
which we predicate of the most diversely organized beings, and therefore would seem to be something
the same in all, which they secure in a diversity of ways.

This is an atom: 
Thus Darwin defines the general good or welfare which should be the aim of our conduct as "the
rearing of the greatest number of individuals in full health and vigour with all their faculties
perfect;" upon which Mr. Sidgwick remarks[6] with justice: "Such a reduction of the notion
of 'well-being' to 'being' (actual and potential) would be a most important contribution from
the doctrine of Evolution to ethical science. But it at least conflicts in a very startling
manner with those ordinary notions of progress and development" in which "it is always implied
that certain forms of life are qualitatively superior to others, independently of the number
of individuals, present or future, in which each form is realized.... And if we confine ourselves
to human beings, to whom alone the practical side of the doctrine applies, is it not too paradoxical
to assert that 'rising in the scale of existence' means no more than 'developing the capacity
to exist'? A greater degree of fertility would thus become an excellence outweighing the finest
moral and intellectual endowments; and some semi-barbarous races must be held to have attained
the end of human existence more than some of the pioneers and patterns of civilization." Nor
is it only in the region of ethics but in every region that this false simplification is fertile
in paradoxes; and yet if it be disowned, the charm to which Evolution owes its popularity is gone.

This is an atom: 
It would be indeed a short cut to knowledge if we might believe life to be, as this theory
imagines it, a simple, self-diffusing force with an irrepressible tendency to spread itself
in all directions, like fire in a prairie. True we should not have altogether got rid of innate
tendencies, but we should have reduced them to one, namely, to the struggling, or persisting,
or self-asserting tendency; a simplification like that offered by the matter-and-force theory
of Buchner.

This is an atom: 
This flame of life once kindled (we are told) endeavours to subdue all things to itself, and
all that we find in the way of variety of organic structure and function has been shaped and
determined by its struggle--much as a river channels a way for its waters in virtue of its
own onward force, checked and determined by the nature of the obstacles it has to encounter.
Every organism is related to life as the candlestick to the candle; it is simply a device for
supporting and spreading as much life as is possible with the surrounding conditions. Often,
when conditions are favourable, the simplest contrivance will be more effectual, more life-producing
than the most complex in less favourable conditions. Where food is not present the animal that
can move about in search of it will survive, and the stationary animal perish; and likewise
those that can escape their foes will live down those rooted in one spot. And if to motion
we add perception and intelligence, and associative instincts and the rest, we increase the
appliances for dealing with difficulties; and therewith the means of survival when such difficulties
exist. Still, in the hypothesis we are dealing with, all these contrivances--movement, consciousness,
intelligence, will, society--are distinct from life and ministerial to it; they are instruments
by which it is preserved, increased, and multiplied--like those contrivances by which heat
or electricity is generated, sustained, and transmitted; with this difference, that no one
has designed these life-machines, but they are simply the result of life's innate tendency
to struggle and spread. A great deal of the form and movement of the inorganic world is due
simply to the stress of gravitation and not to design, and so we are asked to believe that
the human and every other organism has been shaped and quickened by the action of as blind
a power; that it is in some sense a casual result.

This is an atom: 
Now if seeing and hearing and thinking do not constitute life, but are only chance discoveries
helpful to life; if we do not live in order to eat and to see and to think, but only think,
see, and eat in order to live, we ask ourselves, what then is this life which is none of these
things and to which they are all subordinate? And when once we begin subtracting those functions
which minister to life and which life has selected for its own service, we find there is absolutely
nothing left to serve. Taking the very earliest forms, if we subtract movement, nutrition,
growth, generation, we find there is nothing over called "life" distinct from these. This is
the first and fundamental incoherence of the theory; life has simply no meaning apart from
those functions which we speak of as ministering to life; unless we mean by life the mere cohering
together of the bodily organism--an end more effectually secured without any such complex apparatus,
by a stone or by an elementary atom.

This is an atom: 
If existence in that sense, be the force or principle whose persistence and self-assertion
is the cause of all evolution, it is impossible to conceive how primordial atoms, which are
assumed to be indestructible and constant in quantity, should trouble themselves to struggle
at all; since the amount of that kind of existence can neither be lessened nor increased. And
as motion is also assumed to be a constant quantity, it is plain that what struggles to be
and to multiply, must be some special collocation and grouping of atoms with some correspondingly
particular determination of motion, called "life;" but what "life" is, apart from the means
it is supposed to have selected for itself, does not appear.

This is an atom: 
Another difficulty attendant on this false simplification is the complete subversion of that
scale of dignity or excellence upon which we range the various kinds of living creatures, putting
ourselves at the top--not merely in obedience to a pardonable vanity, but, as has hitherto
been supposed, in obedience to a trustworthy intuition which, without attempting to apply a
common measure to things incommensurable, judges life to be higher than death; consciousness
than unconsciousness; mind than mere sensation; and in general, what includes and surpasses,
than what is included and surpassed. We see that the organic world presupposes the ministry
of the inorganic; and the animal world, that of the plant world; and that the human world depends
on the ministry of all three; and our whole conception of this world as "cosmos" is simply
the filling in of this hierarchic framework. Yet this old structure falls to pieces under the
new simplification. If "life" (as vaguely conceived) be the first beginning and the last end
(or rather result) of the whole process of evolution, if it be the _summum bonum_, then the
"highest" creature means, the most life-producing.

This is an atom: 
Now if we put "money" instead of "life," and begin to classify men by this standard, we see
how it inverts the old-world ideas of social hierarchy. True it is, the man of letters or of
high artistic gifts can produce a certain amount of money, but has little chance against the
inventor of a new soap or a patent pill. Honesty at once becomes the worst policy, and a thousand
other maxims have to be reformed. Yet this is a trifling _boule-versement_ compared with that
which would have to be introduced into our scientific classification were "life-productivity"
(in the vague) taken as the criterion of excellence.

This is an atom: 
For we cannot any longer determine the rank of an animal by its organic complexity, since,
_ceteris paribus_, this is a defect rather than otherwise.

This is an atom: 
To secure life more simply is better than to secure the same amount by means of complex apparatus.
Of course when the favouring conditions are altered, then any apparatus that makes life still
possible is an advantage; but till that crisis arises it is only an encumbrance. When life
can be secured only at the cost of greater labour and exertion and cunning, it is well to be
capable of these things, but surely those animals are more to be envied that have no need of
these things. It is only on the hypothesis of an unkindly environment that complexity of organization
is an excellence.

This is an atom: 
Furthermore, although these accidental variations allow certain creatures to survive in crises
of difficulty, yet they also make the conditions of their survival more complicated and hard
to secure. All that differentiates man from an amoeba has enabled him to get safe through certain
straits where the lower forms of life were left behind to perish; but it has also made it impossible
for him to live in the simpler conditions he has escaped from; like a parvenu whose luxurious
habits have gradually created a number of new necessities for him, which make a return to his
original poverty and hardships quite impracticable. If the development of lungs has allowed
animals to come out of the water into the air, it has also prevented their going back again.
Furthermore, a considerable amount of vital energy is consumed in the production, support,
and repair of all this supplementary, life-preserving apparatus; just as, much of the national
wealth for whose protection they exist is absorbed by a standing army and other military preparations.
And in fact of two countries otherwise equal in wealth, that is surely the better off which
has no need of being thus armed up to the teeth. Thus man's superior organization may be compared
to the overcoat and umbrella with which one sets out on a threatening morning; very desirable
should it rain, but a great nuisance should it clear up.

This is an atom: 
It seems, then, that the highest organism is that which produces or secures the greatest quantity
of life in the simplest manner, and at the cost of the least complexity of structure and function;
while the lowest is that which yields the least quantity at the greatest cost; and between
these two extremes organisms will be ranked by the ratio of their complexity to their life-productivity--life
being measured mathematically (as something homogeneous) by its vigour, by its duration, and
by the amount of matter animated, whether in the individual or in its progeny. It is obvious
how, at this rate, our zoological hierarchy is turned topsy-turvy; and how difficult it will
be to show that man is a better life-machine than, say, a mud-turtle with its centuries of
vital existence.

This is an atom: 
It would be a monstrous allegation to say that any evolutionist would defend these conclusions
in all their crudity; but is only by thus pushing implied principles to their results, that
their incoherence can be made plain. Once more, if this simple uniform thing called life be
the sole cause, determining organic Evolution and selecting accidental variations, just in
so far as they favour its own maintenance and multiplication, then every organ, appliance,
and faculty by which man differs from the simplest bioplast, is merely a life-preserving contrivance.
To speak human-wise, Nature in that case has but one end--animal life; and chooses every means
solely with a view to that end. She does not care about pain or pleasure, or consciousness,
or knowledge, or truth, or morality, or society, or science, or religion, for their own sakes;
she cares for life only, and for these so far as--like horns and teeth and claws--they are
conducive to life. Evolution therefore is governed by a blind non-moral principle--as blind
and ruthless as gravitation. This being so, the mind is for the sake of the body, and not conversely.
Evolution is not making for truth and righteousness as for greater or even as for co-ordinate
ends; but simply for life, to which sometimes truth and righteousness, but just as often illusion
and selfishness, are means. There is nothing therefore in this process of Nature to make us
trust that our mind really makes for truth as such, or that it has any essential tendency to
greater correspondence with reality, beyond what subserves to fuller animal existence. The
fact that a certain belief makes animal life possible is no proof of its truth, but only of
its expediency. The extent to which many pleasures depend on illusion is proverbial; and pleasure
is almost the note of vital vigour, according to this philosophy.

This is an atom: 
Plainly, our argument from the adaptability of a belief to man's higher moral needs, vanishes
into thin air as soon as the key to the order of nature is thus sought in a blind non-moral
tendency, and when that which is lowest is put at the top, and everything above it made to
minister to it.

This is an atom: 
But then it is not only this particular argument that perishes, but all possibility of arguing
at all, all faith in our mental faculties, except so far as they minister to the finding of
food and the propagation of life. Thus the very attempt to prove such a system of Evolution
is a contradiction, since it cuts away all basis of proof. On this I need not dwell longer,
since it has been worked out so fully and clearly by others. We get rid of the argument from
adaptability, by a conception of the order of Nature that reduces us to mental and moral chaos.

This is an atom: 
In its semblance of simplicity this form of Evolution-philosophy shows itself kin to those
other old-world attempts to dispense with a governing mind, and to educe the existing cosmos
from the blind strife of primordial atoms. It has indeed a more plausible basis, seeing how
many things, too quickly attributed to design in a theological age, can really be explained
by the struggle for existence. But in trying to make an occasional and partial cause universal
and ultimate, it has undertaken the impossible task of bringing the greater out of the less;
which really means bringing their difference out of nothing--and this is creation with the
First Cause left out; that is, spontaneous creation. It is from first to last an "aggregation"
theory, and has to face the insupportable burdens which such a theory brings with it. Haunted
by a false analogy drawn from the political organism whose members are intelligent and self-directive,
and who put themselves under an intelligent government to be marshalled and directed to one
common end--haunted by this anthropomorphic conception, it tries to explain how independent
and indestructible units, void of all intelligence, come together into polities with no assignable
government; and how these groups or polities, which are nothing separate from the sum of their
components, are aggregated to one another in like manner; until at last we come to the highest
organism, which again is only the sum of its ultimate atoms, and its activity the sum of their
activities--the whole distinction between highest and lowest organism being such as exists
between a society of two and a highly complex civilized state. And all this political life
is the spontaneous work of unintelligent units; that is to say, we have results exceeding the
highest ever attained by human intelligence, long before intelligence or sentience has yet
been evolved.

This is an atom: 
Nobody will care to support "Pangenesis" as a theory of generation. To suppose that there is
a mysterious power which breaks a little fraction off each of the bioplasts of which we are
asserted to be the sum; that having collected these fractions it arranges them all in the right
order within the compass of a single germ, and from that germ reproduces the parent organism,
is an hypothesis compared with which the creation of the world in its entirety six thousand
years ago, including the fossils and remains of aeonian civilizations, is lucid and intelligible.
This is no hyperbole. For if once we allow creation at all, the creation of the world at any
stage of Evolution is just as conceivable as the creation of primordial atoms. If any living
thing were now created (e.g., a grain of corn or a full ear) it would bear in itself the apparent
evidence of having _grown_ to its present state _ab ovo_; or the _ovum_ itself would seem to
ground a similar false inference of having come from a parent. Strange as such an idea may
be, it is easy and pellucid compared with the hypothesis of Pangenesis--still more when we
remember that this complex germ, which is a lion or a horse in small--itself the elaboration
of aeons of Evolution--can replicate itself with ease and rapidity, reproducing in adjacent
pabulum a "cosmos" which differs in degree, not in kind, from that described in the story of
the Six Days. Yet the more we look into it, the more clear is it that Pangenesis (and not Polarigenesis
or Perigenesis) is the inevitable outcome of the aggregation-theory of life.

This is an atom: 
And therefore to return to our former assertion, whatever we seem to gain in simplicity of
statement by this form of the Evolution theory, we pay for dearly when we come to its application;
nay more, as soon as we attempt to translate the words into clear and distinct ideas, we are
left with nothing coherent that the mind can get hold of; and it is only at this price that
we can cut away the basis of the "argument from adaptability," and with it the basis of all
reason and morality. We must therefore go on to examine if there be any alternative form of
the same philosophy more bearable.

This is an atom: 
I have forborne all criticism of the supposed _facts_ on which Evolution is based; as others
have dealt frequently with their various weaknesses. Nor do I think it necessary to deal with
the extravagant subordinate hypotheses by aid of which facts are forced under the main hypothesis,
e.g., those which explain how the horse grew out of the hipparion. The crudest finalists have
been everywhere out-stripped by Evolutionists in dextrous application of the argument _a posse
ad esse_.

This is an atom: 
III.

This is an atom: 
Assuming still that the facts collected and arranged by experimental science in favour of the
hypothesis are such as to demand some kind of Evolution-philosophy; assuming that the very
imperfect serial classification of living things according to their degree of organic definiteness,
coherence, and heterogeneity not merely represents a variety which has always coexisted since
life was possible on this earth, but rather traces out or hints at the genetic process by which
this variety has been produced, let us see if there be any other governing principle directing
the process, more intelligible than the persistence of that mere organic life which cannot
even be thought of as distinct from those appliances and functions which it is supposed to
have evolved for its own service by "natural selection."

This is an atom: 
Let us admit, what is really evident, that life is nothing distinct from the sum of those functions
which minister to the preservation of life; and that therefore it is not the same thing in
a man and in a mud-turtle. Man's superior faculties are not merely a more complicated machinery
for producing an identical effect which the mud-turtle produces more simply and abundantly,
but rather by their very play _constitute_ an entirely different and higher kind of life. When
Hume, in his _Treatise on Human Nature_, says: "Reason is and ought to be the slave of the
passions and can never pretend to any other office than to serve and obey them," he implies
that the exercise of reason is no constituent factor of human life, but something outside it,
subordinate to it, whereas that life itself consists in passion, or pleasurable sensation,
of which man, in virtue of his reason and other advantages, secures more than do his fellow-animals.
This is just the conception of life which we have seen to be incoherent on close inspection;
and if it be so, then the evolutionary process is a struggle not for bare life or existence,
but for the prevalence of the _higher kinds_ of life and existence; and intelligence and morality
are not only co-operative as instruments in maintaining and extending human life, but are themselves
the principal elements of that complex life. True, the mind does minister to the body and preserve
it; but still more does the body minister to the mind; or rather, each ministers to that whole
in which the play of the mind is the principal function and the play of the body subordinate.
If, then, we hold to the verdict of our common sense, and regard our mental life not as subordinate
to our sensitive and vegetal life, but as co-ordinate and even superior, we must (so to speak)
view it as no less "for its own sake," as no less an "end in itself" than they are, but rather
much more; we must regard evolution as making for the life of truth and the life of righteousness
even more principally than for bare existence or animal vitality. It is now no longer mere
life that tries to assert itself, and in the struggle shapes things to what they are; but it
is the very highest kind of life, that is trying to come to the birth. Nature inherently tends
to the higher through the lower forms of life, and these minister to the higher and receive
in return from them the means of a yet more efficacious ministry.

This is an atom: 
In this conception, every function of the organism has two aspects, under one of which it is
its own end and exists for its own sake as an element of the life of the whole; under the other
it is ministerial, serving other functions above and below it, as it in return is served by
them. Correspondence with the environment is, similarly, not merely a condition of life, but
also that wherein vitality principally consists. "Living" is spontaneous self-adaptation to
surrounding reality, taken in the very widest sense. The more diverse and multiform this adaptability,
the fuller and higher is the life; and thus our ordinary common-sense classifications are justified.
Each new manifestation of life means some new correspondence with surrounding reality as we
piss from mere vegetation, and then add local movement, and one sense after another, till we
come finally to intelligence and the life of reason and right-doing, which again, consists
in self-conformation to things as they really are. In all this we are in agreement with common
sense and common language, which identify the fullest life with the fullest activity; all activity
being of the nature of response to stimulus, that is, correspondence to reality. As soon as
consciousness supervenes on the lower forms of life it is evident that the pleasures of sight,
hearing, taste, mind, and affection all depend on, and consist in, the consciousness of this
successful accommodation of the subject to the object; and that all pain and disease is simply
the felt failure of such adaptation. What was anciently and very wisely called the "natural
appetite" of living creatures is in this view nothing else but their response to the modifying
attraction exerted upon them by the objective Reality which presses upon them on every side,
and tends to draw them into conformity with itself so far as they have latent capacity for
such a correspondence. It is the light that makes (or rather elicits) sight; and it is sound
that develops the sense of hearing: and it is the ideas embodied in Nature that call our intellect
into play. Hence it follows that, desire for truth and justice, for society and for religion,
which assert themselves as invariably in the soul of man at certain stages of progress, as
the desire for mere life asserts itself from the first, is simply the felt result of the as
yet unsuccessful endeavour of Nature to draw man into a fuller kind of correspondence with herself.

This is an atom: 
Thus conceived, the course of evolution is comparable, not as before, to the gradual unveiling
of a blank canvas, revealing simply a greater extent of the same appearance, but to the gradual
unveiling of a picture whose full unity of meaning is held in suspense till the disclosure
is completed. We do not now interpret the higher by the lower, but the lower by the higher;
the beginning by the end. This may seem perilously near to finalism, yet it is no more necessarily
so, than the process of photography; we only need a self-adaptive tendency in life-matter responsive
to the stimulating-tendency of the environment. Not, of course, that this bundle of words really
explains anything, but that like other formulae of the kind, it prescinds from the question
of ends and origins, by making a statement of what happens serve as a cause of what happens,
and calling it a Law or a Tendency, or a Latent Potentiality--thus filling the gap which mere
agnosticism creates in our thought.

This is an atom: 
With this conception of Evolution our ordinary estimates of "higher" and "lower" are saved;
also the value of our mental processes upon which rests whatever proof the theory may admit
of; while the "argument from adaptability" is provided with a firm basis independent of finality.
All our "natural," as opposed to our personal and self-determined appetites or cravings,--those
which are, so to say, constitutional and inseparable from our nature in certain conditions,
are evidence of the influence of some reality outside us seeking to draw us into more perfect
correspondence with itself, and whose nature can be more or less dimly conjectured from the
nature of those cravings. What are called "natural religions" represent man's self-devised
attempts to explain the reality answering to his religious and moral cravings. Revelation is
but a divine interpretation of the same; as though one with dim vision were to supplement his
defect by the testimony of another more clear-sighted.

This is an atom: 
It may be practically admitted that no philosophy allows of strict demonstration, since, being
a conception of the totality of things, it modifies our understanding of every principle by
which one might attempt to prove or disprove it. Eventually it is its harmony with the totality
of things as we perceive them that determines us to accept it, and no two of us perceive just
the same totality, however substantial an agreement there may be in our experience; yet I think
it can hardly be denied that this conception of evolution is far more in agreement with the
world as most of us know it, and commonly think and speak of it, than the former; that it not
merely satisfies our intellect, but offers some satisfaction to our whole spiritual nature.
"Is it certain," asks Mr. Bradley, in a fairly similar connection, "that the mere intellect
can be self-satisfied if the other elements of our nature remain uncontented?" And, again:
"A result, if it fails to satisfy our whole nature, comes short of perfection: and I could
not rest tranquilly in a truth if I were compelled to regard it as hateful.... I should insist
that the inquiry was not yet closed and that the result was but partial. And if metaphysics"
[for which we may substitute: any philosophy, such a& that of Evolution] "is to stand, it must,
I think, take account of all sides of our being. I do not mean that every one of our desires
must be met by a promise of particular satisfaction; for that would be absurd and utterly impossible.
But if the main tendencies of our nature do not reach consummation in the Absolute, we cannot
believe that we have attained to perfection and truth."[7] From this point of view there can
be no doubt as to which of these conceptions of Evolution is the more rational and satisfactory;
that which would explain it by a simple tendency in living matter to persist and spread, and
would see in all organic variety only the selected means to that somewhat colourless end; or
that conception which would explain it by a tendency in living matter to come into ever fuller
correspondence with its environment, seeing in such spontaneous correspondence the very essence
of life, and not merely a condition of life.

This is an atom: 
We need only add a few criticisms on this second conception.

This is an atom: 
1. It is true that every creature struggles more intensely and vigorously for the lower kind
of life, or for "mere life," as we might say, than for any of those things which alone would
seem to make life worth the having. But this only means that to live at all is the most fundamental
condition of living well and fully and enjoyably. The higher life cannot stand without the
lower, which it includes, but the lower is not therefore the better, nor is it the end for
whose sake the higher is desirable; but conversely. Not until men have got bread enough to
eat will they have leisure or energy to spare for the animal grades of vitality. When the means
of bodily subsistence grow scarce, then the faculties that were previously set free to seek
the bread of a higher and fuller life are diverted to the struggle for bare animal existence,
and progress is thrown back; but when there is abundance for all, secured by the labour of
a few from whom the remainder can buy, then fuller life becomes once more possible for that
remainder. The struggle for bodily food gives an advantage to, and "selects" naturally, those
mental and other powers which facilitate its attainment; but just as man does not only eat
and labour in order to live, but also (however it may shock conventional ethics) lives in order
to eat and labour; so the new energies called forth by competition do not merely secure that
grade of life in whose interests they are evoked and perfected, but extend the sphere of vitality,
in so much as their own play adds a new element to life and gives it a new form.

This is an atom: 
The part played by struggle and competition in this process of Evolution is naturally exaggerated
by those who deny any latent tendency other than that of mere persistence in being; who repudiate
an internal expansiveness towards fuller kinds of existence, drawn out or checked by the environment.

This is an atom: 
Competition plays a prominent part when there is question of the lower grades of life, in so
far as these depend on a pabulum that is limited in quantity. In such cases competition, within
certain limits, will secure the bringing-out of latent powers by which the lower level of life
is maintained and a higher level entered upon; the lower being secured by the superimposition
of the higher.

This is an atom: 
But how does it do so? Not by creating anything, but by giving the victory to those individuals
who already were ahead of their fellows in virtue of a fuller development of their nature from
within; in clearing the ground for them and letting them increase and multiply.

This is an atom: 
2. Again, we should notice that development in one direction may be at the cost of development
in another. The struggle for any lower form of existence than that already attained, is inevitably
at the cost of the higher. The degrading effects of destitution are proverbial. Craft, cruelty,
selfishness, and all the vices needed for success in a gladiatorial contest are often the fruits
of such competition. Also, commercial progress seems on the whole to be at the expense of progress
in art and the higher tastes, sacrificing everything to the production of the greatest possible
quantity of material comforts. If it sharpens the wits and sensibilities in some directions,
it blunts them in others.

This is an atom: 
Now, the first sense suggested to us in these days by the word "progress," is material progress--all
that came in with steam; and this narrow conception vitiates much of our reasoning. It is in
this realm undoubtedly that competition is such a factor of rapid advance; but we forget that
the food of what the best men have ever considered the best life, is not limited or divisible;
but like the light and air is undiminished how many soever share it. Whatever advance there
has been in the life of the mind and of the higher tastes and sensibilities, cannot directly
be explained by competition, but simply by the quiet upward working of Nature's inherent forces.
We look with scorn at the unprogressive East, satisfied that there can be no progress, no life
worth living, where there is no rush for dollars. But I think we have yet to learn the meaning
of _ex Oriente lux_.

This is an atom: 
Much of our immorality and our social evil comes from the fact that those who have developed
the faculties of a higher grade of life, seek the lower as an end in itself, and not simply
so far as it is a condition of the higher and no further. The Gospel precept, as usual, enunciates
only the law of reason and nature, when it bids us to "Seek first the Kingdom of God and its
justice," that is, to put our best life in the front, and to make it the measure and limit
of any other quest. The neglect of this principle gives us high living and plain thinking,
instead of "high thinking and plain living;" and takes the bread out of the mouths of the poor.
The competition for pleasures and luxuries and amusements, may indeed develop certain industries
and cause progress in certain narrow lines, but it is at the cost of the only progress worth
the name.

This is an atom: 
The conflict between this "struggle-theory" and ethics has been freely acknowledged by Professor
Huxley and others; every attempt to educe unselfishness from selfishness has failed. The moral
man even in our day has rather a bad time of it; what chance would he have had of surviving
to propagate his species in the supposed pre-moral states of human society? Who can possibly
conceive mere rottenness being cured by progress in rottenness; or a man drinking himself into
temperance? On the other hand, it is at least conceivable that in the wildest savage there
is some little seed of a moral sense--weak, compared with the lowest springs of action, just
because it is the highest and therefore only struggling into being; and that in the slow lapse
of time events may here and there prove that honesty is the best policy; and that honesty once
tasted may be found not only useful for other things, but agreeable for itself, and may be
cherished and strengthened by social and religious sanctions.

This is an atom: 
There is, however, a reaction on foot which tends to reconcile the breach between ethics and
evolution, by reducing the part played by competition within reasonable bounds, and making
it subservient to the survival, not of the most selfish, but of the most social individuals.
Definite variations from within, modified between narrow limits by accidental variation from
without, is coming to be acknowledged as the chief factor of progress. But we should not forget
that to allow an internal principle of orderly development is, not merely to modify the popular
evolution theory by a slight concession to its adversaries; it is rather to make it no longer
the supreme explanation of development, but at most a slight modification of the more mysterious
theory which it was its boast and merit to have supplanted. According to Geddes and Foster
and others of their school, it is the species-subserving qualities that Nature selects; and
these, in the higher grades of life, are equivalent to the altruistic, social, and ethical
qualities. It is in virtue of the parental and maternal instincts of self-sacrifice, self-diffusion,
self-forgetfulness in the interests of the offspring, that species are preserved and prevail.
Selfish egoism leads eventually (as we see in some modern countries where _laizzez-faire_ liberalism
prevails) to social disruption, decadence, and chaos; and this is the universal law of life
in every grade. At first indeed the unit struggles to live, for life is the condition of propagation;
but the root of this instinct is altruistic; it is the whole asserting itself in the part;
and all "self-regarding" instincts are to be likewise explained as subordinate to the "other-regarding"
instincts. As soon as this sub-ordination is ignored in practice, regress takes the place of
progress. The transit, we are told, from the unicellular to the multicellular organism cannot
be explained by individualism, but implies a diminution of the competitive, an increase of
the social and subordinative tendency. The argument from economics to biology and back again,
is said to be nearing exposure; the "progress of the species through the internecine struggle
of its individuals at the margin of subsistence," is the outgoing idea. Yes, and with it goes
out all that made Evolution a simple and therefore popular explanation of the world; and there
comes in that "organic" conception of the process which clamours for theism and finalism as
its only coherent complement.

This is an atom: 
3. But though Evolution so conceived makes the "argument from adaptability," as well as the
arguments for theism, stronger rather than weaker; we must not shut our eyes to the difficulty
created by the fact (too little insisted upon by Evolutionists) that there is no solid reason
for thinking that progress is all-pervading. We have already said that progress in commerce
may be regress in art or in religion or in morality. Also, progress in benevolence may co-exist
with regress in fortitude and purity; progress in one point of morality with regress in another;
progress in ethical judgment with regress in ethical practice. And in every realm, growth and
decay, life and death, seem so to intertwine and oscillate that it is very gratuitous to designate
the total process as being one or the other. Spencer confesses that the entire universe oscillates
between extremes of integration and disintegration. Why we should consider the universe at
present to be rising rather than falling, waxing rather than waning, one cannot say. The easier
presumption is that it is equally one and the other, and always has been. Even were we rash
enough to pronounce progress to be on the whole prevalent within the narrow field of our own
experience, surely it were nothing but the inevitable "provincialism" of the human mind to
pass _per saltum_ from that, to a generalization for all possible experience. Our optimism,
our faith that right, truth, and order will eventually prevail, can find only a delusive basis
in actual experience, and must draw its life from some deeper source.

This is an atom: 
Why then should we so presume that our moral and religious ideas are really progressive and
not regressive, as to regard their interpretation as approximating to the truth? The answer
is simply that our argument from adaptability does not require the assumption in question,
but only that we should be able to distinguish higher from lower tendencies, progressive from
regressive movements, without holding the optimistic view that on the whole the forward tendency
is at present prevailing. It is not because we live in the nineteenth century that we consider
our moral perceptions truer than those of the ancient Hebrews, but because we at once comprehend
and transcend their ideas (in some respects), as the greater does the less. In many points
surely the relation is inverted and we feel ourselves transcended (or may at least suspect
it), by those who lived or live in ruder conditions than our own. David has perhaps taught
us more than we could have taught him; and there are other vices than those proper to semi-barbarism.
It is not by reference to date or country, or grade of material progress, that we assess the
value of moral judgments, but by that subjective standard with which our own moral attainments
supply us in regard to all that is equal or less, similar or dissimilar. To deny this discernment
is to throw the doors open to unqualified scepticism; to admit it, is all that we need for
the validity of our inference.

This is an atom: 
4. If Evolution is really of this oscillatory character; if at all times much the same processes
have been going on in different parts of this universe as now--one system decaying as another
is coming into being; is it not more reasonable to imagine (for it is only a question of imagining)
that the primordial datum was not uniform nebula, but matter in all stages of elaboration from
the highest to the lowest--the same sort of result as we should get from a cross-section at
any subsequent moment in the process? What reason is there for assuming primordial homogeneity,
since every backward step would show us, together with the unravelling of what is now in process
of weaving, a counter-balancing weaving of what is now in process of disintegration? Were this
earth all, we might dream of universal advance by shutting our eyes to a great many incompatible
facts; but when our telescopes show us the co-existence of integration and disintegration everywhere,
what can we conclude but that in the past as in the future, no alteration is to be looked for
beyond the shifting of the waves' crest from side to side of the sea of matter--the total ratio
of depressions to elevations remaining exactly constant.

This is an atom: 
Were the other view of an original universal homogeneity correct, how conies it that we have
still co-existent every stage of advance from the lowest to the highest, and that there is
not a greater equality?--a difficulty which does not exist if we suppose things to have been
_on the whole,_ as they are now, from the very first. But whichever view we take; whether we
suppose all things collectively to oscillate between recurring extremes of "sameness" and "otherness;"
or every stage of the wave of progress from crest to trough, to be simultaneously manifested
in the universe at all times, the old difficulty of "the beginning" will force itself upon
us. A process _ab aeterno_ is at least as unimaginable as the process of creation _ex nihilo;_
if it be not altogether inconceivable to boot. And the alternative is, either a primordial
state of homogeneous matter which contains the present cosmos in germ, and from which it is
evolved without the aid of any environment--such a germ claiming a designer as much as any
ready-made perfect world; or else, a primordial state of things like that which we should get
at any cross-section of the secular process, in which every stage of life and death, growth
and decay, evolution and involution, is represented as now. This would include fossils and
remains of past civilizations which (in the hypothesis) would never have existed; and would
be in all respects as difficult as the crudest conception of the creation-hypothesis. And if
this absurdity drives us back to primordial homogeneity, as before, we must remember that here,
too, though not so evidently, we should have all the signs of an antecedent process that was
non-existent. Life and death, corruption and integration, are parts of one undulatory process.
Cut the wave where you will its curve claims to be finished in both directions and suggests
a before as well as an after. If, in the very nature of things, the pendulum sways between
confusion and order, chaos and cosmos, each extreme intrinsically demands the other, not only
as its consequent, but as its antecedent; and the first chaos, no less than any succeeding
one, will seem the ruin of a previous cosmos. Therefore we are driven back upon a process _ab
aeterno_ with every stage of evolution always simultaneously represented in one part or other
of the whole. Whatever mitigation such a conception may offer, surely we may be excused for
still adhering to that simpler explanation which involves a mystery indeed, but nothing so
positively unthinkable as a process without a beginning.

This is an atom: 
5. This same conception of a process without beginning, favours the notion that since life
was possible on our globe all species may well have co-existed in varying proportions. From
the sudden spread of population through almost accidental conditions, we can imagine how certain
species might have been so scarce as to leave no trace in geological strata, whereas those
which enormously preponderated at the same time would have done so. A change of conditions
might easily cause the former to preponderate, and their sudden appearance in the strata would
look as though they had then first come into being. In a word, we can have good evidence for
the extinction of species, but scarcely any for their origination.

This is an atom: 
This supposition is not adverse to the derivation of species from a common stock, but rather
favours the notion that as in the case of the individual the period of plasticity is short
compared with that of morphological stability, so if there was such an arboreal branching out
of species from a common root, it took place rapidly in conditions as different from ours as
those of uterine from extra-uterine life; and that the stage of inflexibility may have been
reached before any time of which we have record.

This is an atom: 
But in truth when we see in the world of chemical substances an altogether similar sedation
of species where there can be no question of common descent as its cause, we may well suspend
our judgment till the established facts have excluded the many hypotheses other than Evolution
by which they may be explained.

This is an atom: 
As long as Evolution claims to be no more than a working scientific hypothesis, like ether
or electric fluid--a sort of frame or subjective category into which observed facts are more
conveniently fitted, it cannot justly be pressed for a solution of ultimate problems; but when
it claims to be a complete philosophy and as such to extrude other philosophies previously
in possession, it must show that it can rest the mind where they leave it restless; or that
it has proved their proffered solutions spurious. This, so far, it has absolutely failed to
do. At most it may determine more accurately the way in which God works out His Idea in Creation.
It can stand as long as it is content to prescind from the question of ends and origins; but
then it is no longer a complete philosophy. As soon as it attempts to solve those problems
it becomes incoherent and unthinkable. Its true complement is theism and finality, which flow
from it as naturally, if not quite so immediately as the "argument from adaptability." _Deus
creavit_ is so far the only moderately intelligible, or at least not demonstrably unintelligible,
answer given to the problem of _In principio_.

This is an atom: 
We have then in this second and soberer form of the philosophy of Evolution, an attempt to
explain the order of the universe without explicit recourse to the hypothesis of an intelligent
authorship and government of the world: that is to say, independently of theism and finality;
and so far as this explanation admits all the effects and consequences of an intelligent government,
without ascribing them to that cause, it admits among their number the value of the "argument
from adaptability," and allows us to infer that the postulates of man's higher moral needs
correspond approximately to reality, of which they are in some sense the product; and that
the "wish to believe" is less likely to be a source of delusion in proportion as the belief
in question is higher in the moral scale.

This is an atom: 
But it is also clear how unsuccessful this attempted philosophy is in many ways; and with what
difficulties and mysteries it is burdened. At best it can prescind from finalism by a confession
of incompleteness and philosophical bankruptcy; by resolutely refusing to face the problem
of the whole--of the ultimate whence and whither. If it would positively exclude theism or
finalism it must ascribe all seeming order and adaptation to the persistence of some blind
force, subduing all things to itself, to "existence," or to "life" striving to assert and extend
itself. It is this conception that seems best to bring the mystery of the universe within the
comprehension of the popular mind, and is more in keeping with those "aggregation theories"
of our day which regard dust as the one eternal reality whose combination and disguises delude
us into believing in soul and intelligence and divinity. But on closer examination the words
"life" and "existence" answer to no simple reality or force which can be regarded as governing
nature, and from this radical fallacy of language a whole brood of further absurdities spring
up which make the popular form of Evolution-philosophy utterly incoherent.

This is an atom: 
_June, Aug. Sept._ 1899.

This is an atom: 
Footnotes:

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 1: This will perhaps be the most convenient term. In the _Summa of Aquinas_, the
elaborate treatise _De vera religione_, called into existence by more recent exigencies, had
no place. Still, in so far as it is constructed roughly on the same scheme and presupposes
the same philosophy, and (were it not a deepening of the roots rather than an extension of
the branches) might almost be regarded as a development of scholasticism, it may rightly be
called "scholastic" to distinguish it, say, from such a work as the _Grammar of Assent_.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 2: _Science and a Future Life_, By F. W. Myers.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 3: i.e., If an object be adequately and exhaustively conceived under the predicates
A.B.C.D., it is inadequately conceived as A.B.x.x. But if each of these properties be permeated
and modified by the rest, then A in this object is not as A in any other combination, but is
A as related to and modified by B.C.D.; and similarly, the other properties are each unique.
Hence any part is somewhat falsely apprehended till the whole be apprehended, when we are dealing
with organic as opposed to mechanical totalities.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 4: Not that the transmutation of one species into another has yet been detected in
any instance, or perhaps, even were it a fact, could be detected; but that such a serial graduation
has been observed as might be commodiously explained by that supposition,--and also by fifty
others.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 5: _Mind_, 1876, p. 185.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 6: _Mind_, 1876, p. 9.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 7: _Appearance and Reality_.]

This is an atom: 
XXIII.

This is an atom: 
IDEALISM IN STRAITS.

This is an atom: 
"Can any good come out of Trinity?" is a question that has been asked and answered in various
senses during the recent Catholic University controversies in Ireland; but for whatever other
good Catholics might look to that staunchly Elizabethan institution, they would scarcely turn
thither for theological guidance. Yet all definition is negative as well as positive; exclusive
as well as inclusive; and we always know our position more deeply and accurately in the measure
that we comprehend those other positions to which it is opposed. The educative value of comparing
notes, quite apart from all prospect of coming to an agreement, or even of flaying our adversaries
alive, is simply inestimable; we do not rightly know where we stand, except in so far as we
know where others stand--for place is relative.

This is an atom: 
The Donnellan Lecturer for 1897-8 [1] took for his subject the doctrine of the Blessed Trinity
in relation to contemporary idealistic philosophy. The scope of these lectures is, not to prove
the doctrine of the Trinity philosophically, but to show that the difficulty besetting the
conception of a multiplicity of persons united by a superpersonal bond, is just the same difficulty
that brings idealistic philosophy to a dead-lock when it endeavours (1) to escape from solipsism,
(2) to vindicate free-will,(3) to solve the problem of evil. He naturally speaks of Idealism
as "the only philosophy which can now be truly called living," in the sense in which a language
is said to live; that is, which is growing and changing, and endeavouring to bring new tracts
of experience under its synthesis; which is current in universities of the day. Of the Realism
which survives in the seminaries of the ecclesiastical world he naturally knows nothing; addressing
himself to a wholly different public, he speaks to it on its own assumptions, in its own mental
language; and indeed he knows no other. But having weighed idealism in the balance of criticism,
he finds it far short of its pretensions to be an adequate accounting for the data of experience;
he finds that it leads the mind in all directions to impassable chasms which only faith can
overleap. It does not demand or suggest the mystery of the Trinity, but reveals a void which,
as a fact that doctrine alone does fill. The convinced Realist will not be very interested
about the problem of solipsism which for him is non-existent, but the proposed relief from
the difficulties of free-will and of the existence of evil may be grateful to all indifferently;
or at least may suggest principles adaptable to other systems. In his Trinitarian theology
Mr. D'Arcy is in many points at variance with the later conclusions of the schools; and in
some instances his argument depends vitally on this variance; but not in the main. For his
main point is that as our own personality--the highest unity of which we have experience--takes
under itself unities of a lower grade; so the doctrine of the Trinity implies what the hiatuses
of philosophy require, namely, that personal unity is not the highest; that, beyond any power
of our present conception, the personally many can be really (not only morally or socially)
_one thing_. "A wonderfully unspeakable thing it is," says Augustine, "and unspeakably wonderful
that whereas this image of the Trinity" _(sc.,_ the human soul), "is one person, and the sovereign
Trinity itself, three persons, yet that Trinity of three persons is more inseparable than this
trinity" (memory, understanding, and will) "of one person." This "superpersonal" unity is of
course a matter of faith and not of philosophy, yet it is a faith without which subjective
philosophy must come to a stand-still; it is as much a postulate of the speculative reason
as God and immortality are of the practical reason.

This is an atom: 
"If man is to retain the full endowment of his moral nature, we must make up our minds to accept
for ourselves an incomplete theory of things." A philosophy which should unify the sum-total
of human experience, including the supernatural facts of Christianity, is impossible; but even
excluding these facts there is always need of some kind of non-rational assent, which, however
reasonable and prudent in the very interests of thought, is not necessitated by the laws of
thought--is not, in the strictest sense philosophical. Idealism, like other philosophies, "is
not satisfied with an imperfect knowledge of the greatest things. It must rise to the Divine
standpoint and comprehend the concrete universal," and so, of course, it breaks down. "But
it would surely be a hasty inference," says Mr. D'Arcy, "that philosophy must needs be exhausted
because idealism has done its work and delivered its message to mankind," that is, has explored
another blind alley, and has arrived at the _cul de sac_. In fact, if idealism is a living
philosophy, it is nevertheless showing signs of age and decay. Ptolemaic astronomy, as an explanation
of planetary movements, proved its exhaustion by a liberal recourse to epicycles as the answer
to all awkward objections; and philosophies show themselves moribund in an analogous way, by
a monotonous pressing of some one hackneyed principle to a degree that makes common-sense revolt
and fling the whole theory to the winds--chaff and grain indiscriminately. But philosophy must
be distinguished from philosophies, as religion from religions. The imperfection of the various
concrete attempts to satisfy either spiritual need, may make the desperate-minded wish to cut
themselves free from all connection with any particular system; but the desire and effort to
have a knowledge of the whole (_i.e._, a philosophy) is as natural and ineradicable as the
desire to live and breathe. In this general sense, philosophy "takes human experience, sets
it out in all its main elements, and then endeavours to form a plan of systematic thought which
will account for the whole. It has one fundamental postulate, that there is a meaning, or,
in other words, that there is an all-pervading unity." This "faith" in the ultimate coherence
and unity of everything is the presupposition and motive of the very attempt to philosophize
or to determine the nature of that unity. It is not, therefore, itself a product of philosophy;
it is an innate conviction that can be denied only from the teeth outwards, but can neither
be proved nor disproved by the finite mind.

This is an atom: 
To "explain" is in one way or another to liken the less known to what is better known; and
thus every philosophy is an attempt to express--by means of sundry extensions and limitations--the
universe of our experience in the terms of some totality with which we are more familiar; plainly,
it is also an endeavour to express the greater in terms of the less, and must therefore be
almost infinitely inadequate even at the best. At one time the Whole has been conceived as
the unity of a mere aggregate--of a heap of stones; at another, as a mere sand-storm of fortuitous
atoms; there has been the egg-theory, and the tortoise-theory, and many others, no less grotesque
to our seeming. But, leaving fanciful and poetical philosophies aside, and considering only
those which pretend to be strictly rational, we find the objective philosophy and the subjective
confronting one another; the former likening the universe to the works of men's hands; the
latter likening it to man himself; the former taking its metaphors from the artificer shaping
his material according to a preconceived plan for a definite purpose; the latter, from the
thinking and willing self considered as the creator of its own personal experience.

This is an atom: 
There is enough uniformity of plan throughout the animal body to make any one part of the organism
a likeness of the whole--the eye, the heart, or the hand. And so, presumably, there is hardly
any unity we can think of in our own little corner of experience that does not offer some similitude
of the universal unity. But to take this as an adequate explanation; to force the metaphor
to its logical consequences, to the exclusion of every other reasonable though non-rational
assent, is the commonest but most fatal form of intellectual provincialism and narrowness.
Our mind is essentially limited not merely in that it cannot know everything, but in that its
mode of knowledge is imperfect and analogical in regard to all that is greater than itself.
It is broad only when conscious of its narrowness.

This is an atom: 
The first difficulty into which idealism gets itself is that of solipsism. According to its
rigidly argued principles, "mind is separated from mind by a barrier which is, not figuratively,
but literally impassable. It is impossible for any _ego_ to leap this barrier and enter into
the experience of any other _ego_." It is not an abstract self-in-general, but my one solitary
concrete self for which all experience exists. There is no room for any other person. But this
philosophy does not account for our common-sense belief in Nature as existing independently
of self and of other selfs; or in those other selfs with their several and distinct spheres
of experience.

This is an atom: 
The unification it effects when treated rigorously as a complete philosophy leaves out of account
the best part of what it was bound to account for. In spite of idealism, the idealist goes
on _believing_ in other persons or spheres of experience, and in Nature as the experience of
a Divine Person. But since, on his principles, persons are mutually exclusive, and none can
enter the sphere of another's experience, to see with his eyes, or to feel with his nerves, since,

This is an atom: 
Each in his hidden sphere of joy or woe
     Our hermit spirits dwell and range apart,

This is an atom: 
we are thrown back on a disconnected plurality of beings, and God Himself, viewed as personal
(in this sense) is but one among many. Albeit immeasurably the greatest, He cannot be regarded
as the ground of the possibility and existence of all the rest--the home and bond of union
of all other spirits which in Him live and move and have their being.

This is an atom: 
The belief in the personality of God is all-essential for the satisfaction of our religious
cravings, as a presupposition of trust, love, prayer, obedience, and such relationships; as
bringing out the transcendence in contrast with the all-pervading immanence of the deity; as
checking the pantheistic perversion of this latter truth by which, in turn, its own deistic
perversion is checked. God is not only in and through all things; but also outside and above
all things; just as Christ is not only the soul of the Church, but also its Head and Ruler.
Between these two compensating statements the exact truth is hidden from our eyes.

This is an atom: 
But it is not to the conception of the Divine personality and separateness that we are to look
for the missing bond by which the head and members are to be knit together, and the essential
disconnection of these "spheres of experience" overcome. The ultimate unity is a mystery; in
a word, philosophy, as a quest of that unity, breaks down. The solution is suggested only by
the revelation of a superpersonal unity in some sense prior to the multiplicity of Divine Persons,
a unity in which they being many are one, and in which we too are, not merged, but unified
without prejudice to our personal distinctness.

This is an atom: 
Hence, the writer concludes: "Materialism, when its defect is discovered and understood, points
on to idealism. Idealism, when its defect is disclosed, points to Christian theism." For those
who have not come to Christian theism by this thorny and circuitous path, the mode in which
the idealist extricates himself from his self-wrought entanglement may seem of little interest;
but inasmuch as they take for granted the existence of that same multitude of mutually impenetrable
personalities which he, by a revolt of his common-sense against his philosophy is forced to
confess, the problem of the ultimate unity exists for them also.

This is an atom: 
If in its endeavour to vindicate the spirituality of man against the materialist, idealism
tumbles into the slough of solipsism and needs to be fetched out by the doctrine of the Trinity,
it fares much the same way in its attempted defence of free-will against necessity. That freedom
from determination by the "not-self" which idealism vindicates, can belong only to the all-inclusive
Spirit, outside whose self nothing exists; it belongs to me only on the supposition that I
am the all-inclusive; and this, as before, is the point at which common-sense revolts. "Free-will
is based on man's consciousness of his moral nature. It represents not any speculative theory,
but one of the great facts which every theory of things must explain or perish." If we ascribe
freedom to the Absolute and to other spirits (whose existence is forced on us in spite of Idealism),
it is because we first find it in ourselves as the very essence of our spiritual nature. But
if we accept our freedom as a fact which it is the business of philosophy to explain and not
to deny; on just the same testimony we must accept the fact of the manifold limitations of
our liberty of which we are continually conscious. Now here it is that the Idealist defence
of liberty against materialism fails by a deplorable _nimis probat_. It can only save our liberty
by denying our limitations; or at least it leaves us facing a problem which can be solved only
by an assumption for which Idealism offers no philosophical warrant. Hence we are brought back
to the world-old dilemma "between a freedom of God which annihilates man, and a freedom of
man which annihilates God." Idealism has really contributed nothing to the solution of the
difficulty which is persistent as long as God is known only as a Sovereign and Infinite Personality
among a multitude of finite personalities, and until revelation hints at the possibility of
a higher "unity which transcends personality, by which He is to be the reconciling principle
and home of the multitude of self-determining agents." "Final reconciliation of the Divine
and human personality is in fact beyond us."

This is an atom: 
Similarly, in dealing with problems of moral evil, Idealism leads to an _impasse_. As long
as we keep to the notion of one all-inclusive Spirit, the Subject of universal experience,
it is easy to show that sin is but relatively evil, that it is, when viewed absolutely, as
much a factor of the universal life as is righteousness; yet surely this is not to account
for so large and obstinate a part of our experience, but to deny it. Nor can the ethical corollaries
of such a view be tolerated for a moment. That sin is an absolute, eternal, in some sense,
irreparable evil is a conception altogether fundamental to that morality with which Christianity
and modern civilization have identified themselves. It is but another aspect of the doctrine
of freedom and responsibility. Of physical and necessary evil it is possible to assert the
merely negative or relative character; we can view it as the good in process of making; or
as the good imperfectly comprehended; but if this optimism be extended to sin it can only be
because sin is regarded as necessitated, _i.e._, as no longer sin. Hence the view in question
does not account for, but implicitly denies the existence of sin.

This is an atom: 
Furthermore, the whole tendency of more recent idealism is to explain moral evil as an offence
against man's social nature by which he is a member of an organism or community. It is the
undue self-assertion of the part against the interests of the whole. Of course the idealist
explains this organic conception with a respect for personality which is absent from socialistic
and evolutionary doctrines of society. But the notion of sin as a rebellion of one member against
all, is common to both. The latter consider the external life and activity of the unit as an
element in the collective external life of the community--as part of a common work; the former
considers the unity as a free spiritual agency, an end for itself--whose liberty is curtailed
only by the claims of other like agencies, equal or greater. But by what process, apart from
faith and practical postulates and regulative ideas, can subjectivism pass to belief in other
free agencies outside the thinking and all-creating self? The result of Mr, D'Arcy's criticism
of the matter is that "it is because the man exists as a member of a spiritual universe, and
must therefore so exert his power of self-determination as to be in harmony or discord with
God above him, and with other men around him, that the distinction between the good self and
the bad self arises. But in this very conception of a universe of spirits we have passed beyond
the bounds of a purely rational philosophy. Such a universe is not explicable by reference
to the vivifying principle of the self;" and accordingly we are driven back as before upon
the alternative of philosophical chaos, or else of faith in such a superpersonal unity as is
suggested by the doctrine of the Trinity.

This is an atom: 
We have but hinted at the barest outlines of Mr. D'Arcy's argument which, as against Idealism,
is close-reasoned and subtle; and now we have left but little space to deal with the more really
interesting chapter on the "Ultimate Unity." It is not pretended that we can form any conception
of the precise nature of that unity, but merely that some such unknown kind of unity is needed
to deliver us from the antinomies of thought. As we could never rise to the intrinsic conception
of personal unity from the consideration of some lower unity, material or mechanical; so neither
can we pass from the notion of personal to that of superpersonal unity or being.

This is an atom: 
This is only a modern and Hegelian setting of the truth that "being" and "unity" are said analogously
and not univocally of God and creatures. That there are grades of reality; that "substance
is more real than quality and subject is more real than substance," that "the most real of
all is the concrete totality, the all-inclusive universal"--the _Ens determinatissimum_, is
not a modern discovery, but a re-discovery. That our own personality is the highest unity of
which we have any proper non-analogous notion; that it is the measure by which we spontaneously
try to explain to ourselves other unities, higher or lower, by means of extensions or limitations;
that our first impulse, prior to correction, is to conceive everything self-wise, be it super-human
or infra-human, is of course profoundly true; but for this reason to make "self" the all-explaining
and only category, to deny any higher order of reality because we can have no definite conception
of its precise nature, is the narrowness which has brought Idealism into such difficulties.
It is probably in his notion of Divine personality that Mr. D'Arcy comes most in conflict with
the technicalities of later schools. If, as he says, modern theology oscillates between the
poles of Sabellianism and Tritheism, he himself inclines to the latter pole. Father de Regnon,
S.J., in his work on the Trinity, shows that the Greek Fathers and the Latin viewed the problem
from opposite ends. "How three can be one," was the problem with the former; "How one can be
three," with the latter. These inclined to an emptier, those to a fuller notion of personality.
Mr. D'Arcy's Trinitarianism is decidedly more Greek than Latin. The more "content" he gives
to Divine personality, the more he is in-danger of denying identity of nature and operation;
as appears later.

This is an atom: 
Plainly, the word "person," however analogously applied to God, must contain something of what
we mean when we call ourselves "persons," else "we are landed in the unmeaning." When Christ
spoke of Himself as "I," the selfness implied by the pronoun must have had some kind of resemblance
to our own; just as when He called God His Father He intended to convey something of what fatherhood
meant for His then hearers. That He intended to convey what it might come to mean in other
conditions and ages seems very doubtful; and so if the word "person" has acquired a fuller
and different meaning in modern philosophy, we are not at once justified in applying this fuller
conception to the Divine persons, unless we can show that it is a legitimate development of
the older sense.

This is an atom: 
He argues that if the Trinity be the ultimate truth, the Unitarian suppositions and conclusions
of the "natural theologian" are bound to lead to antinomies and confusions; and he sees in
those harmonious interferences and variations of universal import (which are no less an essential
factor in the evolution of the world than the groundwork of uniformity and law), evidence of
a multi-personal Divine government, of a division of labour between co-operant agencies. This,
of course, goes beyond the doctrine of "appropriation;" and amounts to a denial of the singleness
of the Divine operation _ad extra_. It seems, in short, to imply a diversity of nature in each
of the persons, over and above the principle of personal distinctness. Indeed, while it offers
a plausible solution of some minor perplexities, it rather weakens the value of the general
argument. For the notion of a superpersonal unity is needed chiefly as suggesting a mode in
which many mutually exclusive personalities or "spheres of experience" or lives, may be welded
together into a coherent whole. Even could I reproduce most exactly in myself the thoughts
and feelings of another, it were but a reproduction or similarity. I can know and feel the
like; but I cannot know his knowing and feel his feeling; for this were to be that other and
not myself.

This is an atom: 
That God's knowledge of our thoughts and feelings should be of this external, inferential kind
is as intolerable to our mental needs of unification as it is to our religious sense, our hope,
our confidence, our love. In Him we live and move and think and feel; and He in us. That we
can say this of no other personality is what constitutes the burden of our separateness and
loneliness. Our experience exists for no other; but at least it is in some mysterious way shared
by That which lies behind all otherness, not destroying, but fulfilling. "We know not why it
is," says St. Catherine of Genoa, "we feel an internal necessity of using the plural pronoun
instead of the singular." Perhaps it was that she saw in a purer and clearer light what we
only half feel in the obscurity of our grosser hearts.

This is an atom: 
But if God knows our knowing, and feels our feeling, not merely by a similitude but in itself,
it is not because He is transcendent and "personal," as we understand the word, because He
is immanent and "superpersonal," whatever that may mean. But it is just because revelation
tells us that in God there are three selves or Egos, for each of whom the experience (i.e.,
the thought, love, and action) of the other two exists, not merely similar, but one and the
same--the same thinking, loving, and doing, no less than the same thought, love, and deed--that
we can believe in the possibility of our personal separateness being at once preserved and
overcome in that mysterious unity.

This is an atom: 
That God is love; and that love, which as an affection, produces an affective unity between
separate persons, can as the subsistent and primal unity produce a substantial and ineffable
union of which the other is a shadow, is a view towards which revelation points. That the mere
affection of love, the moral union of wills, is an insufficient unification of personalities
is implied by the fact that love always tends to some sort of real union and communication;
and still more, that it springs from a sense of inexplicable identity.

This is an atom: 
It is almost a crime in criticism to deal with such a multitude of deep problems in so brief
and hasty an essay. But if we have roughly indicated the main outlines of the author's position,
we shall have done as much as can be reasonably expected of us; though it is with great reluctance
that we pass over many points, and even whole chapters, bristling with interest.

This is an atom: 
Perhaps the most important feature of the book is the prominence it gives to the difficulties
and insufficiencies of idealism. With those of realism we are all familiar enough, but so far,
idealism has been looked at one-sidedly as evading, if not solving, some of the antinomies
of the earlier philosophy, while its own embarrassments have been condoned in hopes of future
solution. The solution has not come, and now the hopes are dead or dying. What we need is a
higher synthesis, if such be possible for the human mind, or else a frank admission that faith,
in some sense or other, is a necessary complement of every philosophy. One thing is clear,
that reconciliation can be effected, if at all, only by a fair-minded admission of difficulties
inseparable from either system, and by a conscientious criticism of presuppositions. No one
can deal effectually with the idealist position to whom it is simply "absurd" or "ridiculous;"
who has not been to some degree intellectually entangled in it; whose realism is not more or
less of an effort. Else he is dealing with some man of straw of his own fancy, and will be
found, as so often happens, assuming the truth of realism in every argument he brings forward.
Plainly the best minds of modern times have not been victimized by a fallacy within the competence
of a school-boy. And a like intellectual self-denial is needed on the part of the idealist,
who is apt to dismiss all realism as crude, uncritical, or barbaric. We have all our antinomies,
our blind alleys, our crudities; and we have all to fill up awkward interstices with assumptions
and postulates.

This is an atom: 
However much we may dissent from Mr. D'Arcy's theology in certain details; however little we
personally may labour under the difficulties of idealism, we cannot too strongly commend the
endeavour to meet the modern mind on its own platform; to speak to the cultivated in their
own language. Belief is caused by the wish to believe; but it is conditioned by the removal
of intellectual obstacles, different for different grades of intelligence and education. To
create the "wish to believe" is largely a matter of example, of letting Christianity appear
attractive and desirable, and correspondent to the deeper needs of the soul. It is also to
some extent a work of exposition. But when this all-important wish has been created, the intellect
can hinder its effect. It is much to know and feel that Christianity is good and useful and
beautiful; "But some time or other the question must be asked: _Is it true_?" And to liberate
the will by satisfying the intellect is work of what alone is properly called apologetic. Unless
we fall back into quietism which would tell us to read a Kempis and say our prayers and wait,
we must address ourselves first of all to making Christianity attractive; and then to making
it intelligible. And if we do not find it against Gospel simplicity to address ourselves, as
we continually do, to the intelligence of the semi-educated, we cannot allege that scruple
as a reason why we should not address ourselves to the fully educated,--to those who eventually
form and guide the opinions of the many.

This is an atom: 
_Feb. 1901_.

This is an atom: 
Footnotes:

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 1: _Idealism and Theology_. By Charles D'Arcy, B.D. Hodder and Stoughton, 1900.]

***************************************************************************