Document Name: /part1/suspicious-document00119.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 66/66
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/66

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿"You are jesting now," he said with a sad earnestness, "Honor, if I had
come to tell you, that after many months of suspense and sacrifice, I
had sought my way back to you, to tell you that, all my hopes and
aspirations were incapable of realization without you, that life would
never be more than an empty dream, unless I had won you, would you pity
me, and believe me, and relieve me?"

This is an atom: 
As he spoke, he pressed her slender little hands tightly, and looked
hungrily, pleadingly into her large dreamy eyes. She looked suddenly up,
and their glances met, may be for four or five seconds, their eyes
remained in this fixed gaze, then, there were no words required, Guy
Elersley had read his answer clearly, unmistakeably; gently, tenderly,
lovingly he placed his arms around her, and gathered her into his close
embrace, he felt her shiver in his strong arms, then suddenly
remembering himself, he asked--

This is an atom: 
"Are you cold, Honor?"

This is an atom: 
"Cold! so near your heart as this, is it cold enough to freeze me?"

This is an atom: 
"Try it," he whispered, "Oh Honor, could it be possible that life holds
so much enchantment for me yet, are you going to let yourself be won by
such an unworthy admirer as I am, but at least, I can swear to you, that
I have never yet loved any creature as I have you," then interrupting
himself as it were, he asked teazingly--"By the way, who is this _other_
fellow that Standish accused you of loving?--first, is it true that you
did love him?"

This is an atom: 
Honor fidgeted for a second or so, and then looking shyly up into Guy's
face, said--

This is an atom: 
"I hope you won't be vexed, but I am afraid it is a little true I assure
you, I could not help loving him."

This is an atom: 
"Well, this interests me somewhat," Guy muttered in assumed jealousy.
"Who is he, what is he like, what is his name?"

This is an atom: 
"Oh, he is not very nice," Honor retorted coquettishly, "quite plain,
almost homely, I should say, but I can't give his name, he did not give
it to _me_--yet."

This is an atom: 
"Oh, he didn't eh?" Guy said in a voice of gay enthusiasm, "well have
you contemplated what you will do when he offers it to you?"

This is an atom: 
"Well, I suppose, it would be rude to refuse him, and it is one of those
particular cases, where I would not like to make the slightest breach of
etiquette."

This is an atom: 
"How considerate you are. Well, come now, tell me his name--you must?"

This is an atom: 
Coriolanus. What a bad player now Forgot my roll and I'm confused, By
the mockery itself - the blood of my heart! Forgive my tyranny, but
the drum does not say: "Forgive the Romans." - O! a kiss, as my long
spell and sweet as my revenge. Well, at the Juno jealousy, I picked
the kiss, lovers, with, and my lip Has it been faithfully preserved
virgin. My god! how? I gossip? And noblest of all mothers in the world
Did unbegrüßt? - My knees sink into the soil, press down your duty to the
ground as any other son. (He kneels down.) Volumnia. Arise blessed! That,
on a non - weicherm cushion than the stone, I kneel before you and you
kind of new Huldgung Weihe, hitherto entirely wrong was distributed
between child and parents. (You kneels.) Coriolanus. What is it? You
kneel before me? before gescholtnen son? Then like pebbles from
the desert to the bay Naughty Stars Go; rebellsche The winds Feuersonn
with proud cedars whip, Murdering impossibility, a cinch to do
what can never be forever.

This is an atom: 
Volumnia. You are my warrior, I you helped shape. Do you know this woman?
Coriolanus. The noble sister of Publicola, The Luna Rome, chaste as the
Eiszacken, from the purest snow of the frost created at the sanctuary
Diane. Be greeted, Valeria. Volumnia. This is a small excerpt of yourself,
determined by the design-filled year has to be like du Coriolanus. The
god of warriors, with the highest Beistimmung Zeus, Adel To educate your
mind that you're steels "The shame invulnerable, and in war a great
beacon stand, defying the storms, the saving that you look.

This is an atom: 
Volumnia. knees, boy. Coriolanus. wackrer This is my son. Volumnia.

This is an atom: 
He and your wife, the woman here and Are beseechingly myself before
you. Coriolanus. I ask you, still!
"I have a little dealing to do with him," Guy said meaningly, "and the
only condition upon which I could have shown him any leniency, would be
that you had ever cared for him; I am glad to know you have not."

This is an atom: 
"I would not say it, to bring him rigid justice at your hands," Honor
interrupted, "but still I would rather declare, that I am entirely
innocent of ever having had the slightest penchant in that direction."

This is an atom: 
"I will not prevent you from making that a boast," Guy answered, "but I
might have known, that there could never exist any affinity between you
two."

This is an atom: 
They had reached the doorway now, and Guy took the little hand Honor
extended within his own--

This is an atom: 
"Good night," he said, and then rubbing her fingers caressingly between
his warm palms, he said reproachfully:

This is an atom: 
"I have kept you too long, have I not, your hands are so cold?"

This is an atom: 
"Never mind that," she answered sadly, "that is not the coldness which
makes us suffer most, if you never make me feel any other coldness than
this, we will be good friends all our lives."

This is an atom: 
"Trust me," he answered earnestly, "that time will never come, Honor,
when my coldness will chill you, the coldness of death will come upon me
first."

This is an atom: 
Then their lips met again, and with a fond good-night, they parted.

This is an atom: 
Honor stole back to the little room within. She had not been an hour
away altogether, and yet it seemed to her she was a dozen whole years
older in experience. The night air had brought a ruddy glow into her
pale face, and the happy tale of love just gathered from Guy's lips had
kindled a light of dazzling beauty in her eyes.

This is an atom: 
When she returned to the ball room, leaning on the arm of a fussy old
bachelor whom she had intercepted on the way, everyone noticed how
bright and happy she looked, and the would-be sages shook their heads
and envied Vivian Standish in their hearts for having captured such a
prize of rare beauty and goodness.

This is an atom: 
It seemed quite _apropos_ also that Vivian and Honor should evade one
another for the rest of the night, this they did, though not in a
remarkable way, for Honor was too worldly-wise to betray herself before
a ball-room full of people. Their mutual separation gave other young
enthusiasts ample chance to amuse themselves with each other.

This is an atom: 
Vivian Standish moved through the crowd with the same placid, self
sufficient smile that he always wore, he was just as interesting and as
gay as ever, and to the delight of all the young "fancy free" ladies,
sought their society more generously during the rest of this evening at
Mr. Rayne's than he had ever done since rumor linked him with Honor
Edgeworth.

This is an atom: 
Miss Mountainhead, who had always had a wild enthusiasm for Vivian
Standish without ever being able to form his acquaintance, followed his
graceful figure greedily with her calculating eyes through the crowded
room to-night. She felt that before this entertainment ended she would
have met and spoken to him, and she was beginning to exult therein
already. As she sat cogitating thus, a group of young men formed
themselves a little in front of her: looking up, she saw Vivian
Standish, who was amusing the rest, with some droll quotation. Little
did she realize what she was contemplating in this deceptive face, what
a perfect practitioner he was in the art of seeming and appearing,
commanding his outside as he did, with an ease that did him credit! No
one except Honor in all that gay coterie, had ever seen him disconcerted
or in a dilemma, even at this very moment, who could tell? not even Miss
Mountainhead, who studied him so closely, that he was racked by painful
emotions while he was causing merriment to this little group of friends.

This is an atom: 
It was a splendid opportunity for Miss Gerty's introduction. Bob Apley,
her cousin, stood very near her listening to the fun. He knew perfectly
well how she longed for this gratification, and yet he would not give it
to her now when he had such a golden opportunity. She had waited long
enough for him to seek her out, but all in vain she resolved not to let
this night pass without satisfying herself.

This is an atom: 
While she seemingly listened with all cold serenity of countenance to
Madame d'Alberg's commonplace remarks, she quietly stretched out her
blue satin slipper and proceeded to impress her negligent cousin with
the fact that she wanted him to fulfil an old promise of his; not
heeding her first gentle reminder, she turned her face with its eager
listening expression, very pronouncedly to Madame d'Alberg and repeated
the movement with an increased emphasis, resolved to make him notice her
before she gave up.

This is an atom: 
With a curious, puzzled expression on his face, Vivian Standish turned
to see who could be paying such marked attentions to his shining
"pomps," but his surprise only augmented a hundred-fold on seeing the
guilty slipper of a young lady with whom he was not acquainted. She was
fanning herself violently as he turned, and without looking back she
muttered behind her fan in his direction "can't you introduce me?"

This is an atom: 
The whole situation burst upon him in a moment, he knew her to be
acquainted with every other one in the crowd but himself, and her satin
slipper had mistaken him, in its errand, for her "cousin Bob," leaving
the impression on his foot. It was too good a situation to forfeit, so
taking Bob Apley by the shoulder, he turned him around and said--"Miss
Mountainhead, allow me to introduce my friend Mr Apley." The poor girl
looked aghast; her confusion left her speechless.

This is an atom: 
"Is this not the one?" Vivian queried provokingly, "you see I didn't
understand from dainty slipper, which friend you could mean."

This is an atom: 
He had managed that no one heard the joke besides Apley and themselves,
but she looked more to be pitied over it than any sea-sick maiden she
blushed and stammered, and got confused by turns, until Vivian artfully
shifted the topic and asked her for the pleasure of the next dance.

This is an atom: 
The night sped on, and the Christmas festivities at Mr. Rayne's came to
a close. No one was any the wiser of the difference that it had caused
between Honor and Vivian, each had succeeded well in deceiving curious
eyes, and in puzzling the suspicious, jealous ones who surrounded them.

This is an atom: 
Amid many glad greetings of "merry Christmas," Honor's guests departed
after having enjoyed a most glorious evening in the house of her
hospitable guardian.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XXXVII.

This is an atom: 
"The true
  And steadfast love of years,
  The kindly, that from childhood grew,
  The faithful to our tears"

This is an atom: 
_--Mrs Heman_

This is an atom: 
The day after the ball, to the great grief of his devoted household,
Henry Rayne was much weaker than usual. His tasty, tempting breakfast
went back untouched to the kitchen. Although he had not gone down last
night to the scene of gaiety below, his intimate and privileged friends
had visited him in his own apartments above, and the reaction of this
excitement had assumed alarming features to-day.

This is an atom: 
Honor hastened to his side the moment she had finished a hurried toilet.
She got herself impatiently into a wrapper of dark red cashmere, which
fastened at the waist with cords and heavy tassels. A little ruffle of
lace bound her throat, and her feet were thrust into dainty slippers,
her beautiful hair hung in two long braids down her back, making a
perfect picture of her _en deshabille_. She walked stealthily to the
door of the sick room, and seeing the dim eyes of her loved invalid
looking at her, wide open, she ventured in. She advanced slowly to the
large chair on which he sat, and half-seating herself on the cushioned
arm, she threw her arms around his neck and asked in a melancholy voice,
"how he felt this morning?"

This is an atom: 
"They tell me you are not so well, to-day, is that true, dear old pet,
when I have come to wish you the brightest, happiest Christmas day that
will be spent on earth?"

This is an atom: 
The dim eyes of the old man turned lovingly on her for a moment, his
lips trembled and his voice was suspiciously shaky as he answered,

This is an atom: 
"Oh, 'tis nothing to dread, my darling; I am only a little weaker,
that's all."

This is an atom: 
"Yes; but that's a great deal," Honor retorted, "and we must try all we
can to restore you before to-morrow. You were getting on so nicely. I
wonder what can have made the difference."

This is an atom: 
"Why, you'll quite spoil me," the gentle voice tried to say jestingly,
but the eyes closed languidly and the head drooped helplessly back among
the cushions. Two great, round tears stood in Honors eyes, she bowed her
head over the suffering form, and kissed the clammy brow of the
invalid--she tried to say something of encouragment, but great sobs of
stifled anguish choked the passage in her throat.

This is an atom: 
A moment after, the sick man raised his lids wearily and looked on the
girl's clouded face.

This is an atom: 
"My dear little one," he faltered, as he saw the wet lashes and the
trembling lips, "I think, after all, you love your old friend a little
bit."

This is an atom: 
Honor tried to smile through her tears--it was like a little rainbow
bursting through the clouds. She knelt down beside him, and looking up
earnestly into his face, said,

This is an atom: 
"You _must_ get better, if 'twere only for my sake. I did not realize
before as I do now how essential you are to my very existence. I shudder
to imagine life without you, and yet if you do not eat and nourish
yourself during these days, you cannot--" but she would not say the
fearful word--her head fell on his shoulder, and she burst into tears.

This is an atom: 
"My darling!" muttered the unsteady voice of the invalid, "life was
never so seductive to me as it is now, there was a time when I did not
much mind whether I lived or died, but that was before I had you,--since
you have begun to share my solitary life, turning it's dark, dreary
nights into days of happy brightness, I have seen it with other eyes. I
have resigned my days as they passed, one by one, with a greedy,
unwilling resignation, because I had learned to prize them and to love
them, after I had prized and loved you; but, now!--if I must give them
up all at once and forever, I am not going to grumble." A low sob of
suppressed pain escaped the girl's lips. "I have had more comfort in
this world than I ever counted upon," he continued, "I have not known
poverty or destitution, and since a merciful Creator has spared me from
so many briars and thorns of life, I must be doubly resigned to leave
the comforts I have so undeservedly enjoyed, and obey His call."

This is an atom: 
"Oh! dear Mr. Rayne!" sobbed the girl, "do not, pray do not speak like
that, you are so low-spirited to-day. You will be quite well yet, you
are strong enough to battle with a little illness. Don't say you are
going to leave me so willingly--such a thing would break my heart," and
bowing her head on her folded arms, she wept silently and bitterly.

This is an atom: 
After a moment of painful pause, Henry Rayne raised the drooped head and
said in a tender, loving accent,

This is an atom: 
"We are distressing one another, my darling, run away now, and distract
yourself elsewhere. After some time, but joined the noblewoman, and took
me into the hut, because the mother was very quiet, and the father
knelt on her bed and wept, because I came to him, he lifted me to the
mother, and said: "Agnes , bless the Elslein before you distinguished,
"and he laid the hand on my mother's head.

This is an atom: 
The mother said, "God bless you, comfort the father, until her nachkommet.
Elslein, and I already fly."

This is an atom: 
As she saw me with unspeakable love, and then turned to look at the
sky.

This is an atom: 
I said, "God escort you, dear mother!" and wept aloud. Since the noblewoman
wore me out to their Söhnlein, which told me everything, and since
a couple of pigeons over to Lauren Castle flew, we both stretched
childish hands, and cried: "As they fly, fly as they escort you
God, dear heart mother !"Tis none of these, my little one," he answered tenderly, "but your
words reassure me, and I like to hear you say them"--then changing his
tone suddenly, to one of pleading enquiry, he asked. "If I were to wish
you to do me a great favor, Honor, which involved the sacrifice of your
own feelings, and the risk of your future happiness, but that, I did so,
merely on account of my great love for you, do you think, you could be
so unselfish, so grand, as to slight every other consideration for mine,
and grant me my wild wish?"

This is an atom: 
With a little wistful, puzzled look on her face, she answered "There is
no word of binding promise, that it is possible for my lips to utter,
nor no deed bespoken before its committal, by your request or command,
that you may not consider, as wholly yours beforehand, for the
confidence that you have deserved I should place in you, assures me,
that you will ask nothing of me, which is not thoroughly consistent with
my welfare and happiness."

This is an atom: 
"What a noble creature you are!" the old man exclaimed faintly, then
turning, and looking her tenderly in the face, he said "I understand,
then, that very soon, when I make a request of you, you will not deny me
the extreme gratification of giving my request due consideration?"

This is an atom: 
Impulsively, frankly, innocently, Honor thrust her little hands into
those of her guardian, and smiling half sadly, said "A promise is a
promise--there is mine."

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER XXXVIII.

This is an atom: 
"Hark! the word by Christmas spoken,
  Let the sword of wrath be broken,
  Let the wrath of battle cease,
  Christmas hath no word but--Peace"

This is an atom: 
Christmas day was unusually gloomy at Mr Rayne's this year, but it was
quite a voluntary stillness, that reigned there; no one felt gay, or
happy, while the loved master of the house was so low. Jean d'Alberg
stole around in velvet slippers, and the others scarcely moved at all,
as for Honor, she lived in the _boudoir_ below stairs lying awake on the
cosy lounge, dreaming all sorts of day dreams, while she awaited the end
of this painful interruption in their domestic happiness.

This is an atom: 
The sky was slightly overcast with soft, gray clouds, but the day was
fine, and Honor watched the happier passers-by, through the large window
opposite, with a lazy, aimless interest.

This is an atom: 
Vivian did not come at all, as might have been expected, in fact the day
was one of the most unusual, that had ever been passed within the walls
of this cheerful home.

***************************************************************************