Document Name: /part1/suspicious-document01639.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: combine_confidences
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 723/723
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/723

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿A week later Antoine occupied a large room in the old quarter, in which
Felicite, exceeding her promises, had placed a bed, a table, and some
chairs, on the young man formally undertaking not to molest them in
future. Adelaide felt no regret at her son leaving her; the short stay
he had made with her had condemned her to bread and water for more than
three months. However, Antoine had soon eaten and drunk the two hundred
francs he received from Pierre. He never for a moment thought of
investing them in some little business which would have helped him to
live. When he was again penniless, having no trade, and being, moreover,
unwilling to work, he again sought to slip a hand into the Rougons'
purse. Circumstances were not the same as before, however, and he failed
to intimidate them. Pierre even took advantage of this opportunity to
turn him out, and forbade him ever to set foot in his house again.
It was of no avail for Antoine to repeat his former accusations. The
townspeople, who were acquainted with his brother's munificence from
the publicity which Felicite had given to it, declared him to be in
the wrong, and called him a lazy, idle fellow. Meantime his hunger was
pressing. He threatened to turn smuggler like his father, and perpetrate
some crime which would dishonour his family. At this the Rougons
shrugged their shoulders; they knew he was too much of a coward to risk
his neck. At last, blindly enraged against his relatives in particular
and society in general, Antoine made up his mind to seek some work.

This is an atom: 
In a tavern of the Faubourg he made the acquaintance of a basket-maker
who worked at home. He offered to help him. In a short time he learnt to
plait baskets and hampers--a coarse and poorly-paid kind of labour which
finds a ready market. He was very soon able to work on his own account.
This trade pleased him, as it was not over laborious. He could still
indulge his idleness, and that was what he chiefly cared for. He would
only take to his work when he could no longer do otherwise; then he
would hurriedly plait a dozen baskets and go and sell them in the
market. As long as the money lasted he lounged about, visiting all
the taverns and digesting his drink in the sunshine. Then, when he had
fasted a whole day, he would once more take up his osier with a low
growl and revile the wealthy who lived in idleness. The trade of a
basket-maker, when followed in such a manner, is a thankless one.
Antoine's work would not have sufficed to pay for his drinking bouts
if he had not contrived a means of procuring his osier at low cost. He
never bought any at Plassans, but used to say that he went each month to
purchase a stock at a neighbouring town, where he pretended it was
sold cheaper. The truth, however, was that he supplied himself from
the osier-grounds of the Viorne on dark nights. A rural policeman even
caught him once in the very act, and Antoine underwent a few days'
imprisonment in consequence. It was from that time forward that he posed
in the town as a fierce Republican. He declared that he had been quietly
smoking his pipe by the riverside when the rural policeman arrested him.
And he added: "They would like to get me out of the way because they
know what my opinions are. But I'm not afraid of them, those rich
scoundrels."

This is an atom: 
At last, at the end of ten years of idleness, Antoine considered that
he had been working too hard. His constant dream was to devise some
expedient by which he might live at his ease without having to do
anything. His idleness would never have rested content with bread and
water; he was not like certain lazy persons who are willing to put up
with hunger provided they can keep their hands in their pockets. He
liked good feeding and nothing to do. He talked at one time of taking a
situation as servant in some nobleman's house in the Saint-Marc quarter.
But one of his friends, a groom, frightened him by describing the
exacting ways of his masters. Finally Macquart, sick of his baskets,
and seeing the time approach when he would be compelled to purchase
the requisite osier, was on the point of selling himself as an army
substitute and resuming his military life, which he preferred a thousand
times to that of an artisan, when he made the acquaintance of a woman,
an acquaintance which modified his plans.

This is an atom: 
Josephine Gavaudan, who was known throughout the town by the familiar
diminutive of Fine, was a tall, strapping wench of about thirty. With
a square face of masculine proportions, and a few terribly long hairs
about her chin and lips, she was cited as a doughty woman, one who could
make the weight of her fist felt. Her broad shoulders and huge arms
consequently inspired the town urchins with marvellous respect; and they
did not even dare to smile at her moustache. Notwithstanding all this,
Fine had a faint voice, weak and clear like that of a child. Those who
were acquainted with her asserted that she was as gentle as a lamb, in
spite of her formidable appearance. As she was very hard-working, she
might have put some money aside if she had not had a partiality for
liqueurs. She adored aniseed, and very often had to be carried home on
Sunday evenings.

This is an atom: 
On week days she would toil with the stubbornness of an animal. She had
three or four different occupations; she sold fruit or boiled chestnuts
in the market, according to the season; went out charring for a few
well-to-do people; washed up plates and dishes at houses when parties
were given, and employed her spare time in mending old chairs. She was
more particularly known in the town as a chair-mender. In the South
large numbers of straw-bottomed chairs are used.

This is an atom: 
Antoine Macquart formed an acquaintance with Fine at the market. When he
went to sell his baskets in the winter he would stand beside the stove
on which she cooled her chestnuts and warm himself. He was astonished
at her courage, he who was frightened of the least work. By degrees he
discerned, beneath the apparent roughness of this strapping creature,
signs of timidity and kindliness. He frequently saw her give handfuls of
chestnuts to the ragged urchins who stood in ecstasy round her smoking
pot. At other times, when the market inspector hustled her, she very
nearly began to cry, apparently forgetting all about her heavy fists.
Antoine at last decided that she was exactly the woman he wanted. She
would work for both and he would lay down the law at home. She would
be his beast of burden, an obedient, indefatigable animal. As for her
partiality for liqueurs, he regarded this as quite natural. After well
weighing the advantages of such an union, he declared himself to Fine,
who was delighted with his proposal. No man had ever yet ventured to
propose to her. Though she was told that Antoine was the most worthless
of vagabonds, she lacked the courage to refuse matrimony. The very
evening of the nuptials the young man took up his abode in his wife's
lodgings in the Rue Civadiere, near the market. These lodgings,
consisting of three rooms, were much more comfortably furnished than his
own, and he gave a sigh of satisfaction as he stretched himself out on
the two excellent mattresses which covered the bedstead.

This is an atom: 
Everything went on very well for the first few days. Fine attended to
her various occupations as in the past; Antoine, seized with a sort of
marital self-pride which astonished even himself, plaited in one week
more baskets than he had ever before done in a month. On the first
Sunday, however, war broke out. The couple had a goodly sum of money in
the house, and they spent it freely. During the night, when they were
both drunk, they beat each other outrageously, without being able to
remember on the morrow how it was that the quarrel had commenced. They
had remained on most affectionate terms until about ten o'clock, when
Antoine had begun to beat Fine brutally, whereupon the latter, growing
exasperated and forgetting her meekness, had given him back as much as
she received. She went to work again bravely on the following day, as
though nothing had happened. But her husband, with sullen rancour,
rose late and passed the remainder of the day smoking his pipe in the
sunshine.

This is an atom: 
From that time forward the Macquarts adopted the kind of life which
they were destined to lead in the future. It became, as it were, tacitly
understood between them that the wife should toil and moil to keep her
husband. Fine, who had an instinctive liking for work, did not object
to this. She was as patient as a saint, provided she had had no drink,
thought it quite natural that her husband should remain idle, and even
strove to spare him the most trifling labour. Her little weakness,
aniseed, did not make her vicious, but just. On the evenings when
she had forgotten herself in the company of a bottle of her favourite
liqueur, if Antoine tried to pick a quarrel with her, she would set
upon him with might and main, reproaching him with his idleness and
ingratitude. The neighbours grew accustomed to the disturbances which
periodically broke out in the couple's room. The two battered each other
conscientiously; the wife slapped like a mother chastising a naughty
child; but the husband, treacherous and spiteful as he was, measured his
blows, and, on several occasions, very nearly crippled the unfortunate
woman.

This is an atom: 
"You'll be in a fine plight when you've broken one of my arms or legs,"
she would say to him. "Who'll keep you then, you lazy fellow?"

This is an atom: 
Excepting for these turbulent scenes, Antoine began to find his new mode
of existence quite endurable. He was well clothed, and ate and drank his
fill. He had laid aside the basket work altogether; sometimes, when he
was feeling over-bored, he would resolve to plait a dozen baskets for
the next market day; but very often he did not even finish the first
one. He kept, under a couch, a bundle of osier which he did not use up
in twenty years.

This is an atom: 
The Macquarts had three children, two girls and a boy. Lisa,[*] born
the first, in 1827, one year after the marriage, remained but little
at home. She was a fine, big, healthy, full-blooded child, greatly
resembling her mother. She did not, however, inherit the latter's animal
devotion and endurance. Macquart had implanted in her a most decided
longing for ease and comfort. While she was a child she would consent to
work for a whole day in return for a cake. When she was scarcely seven
years old, the wife of the postmaster, who was a neighbour of the
Macquarts, took a liking to her. She made a little maid of her. And when
she lost her husband in 1839, and went to live in Paris, she took Lisa
with her. The parents had almost given her their daughter.

This is an atom: 
[*] The pork-butcher's wife in _Le Ventre de Paris_ (_The
     Fat and the Thin_).

This is an atom: 
The second girl, Gervaise,[*] born the following year, was a cripple
from birth. Her right thigh was smaller than the left and showed signs
of curvature, a curious hereditary result of the brutality which her
mother had to endure during her fierce drunken brawls with Macquart.
Gervaise remained puny, and Fine, observing her pallor and weakness,
put her on a course of aniseed, under the pretext that she required
something to strengthen her. But the poor child became still more
emaciated. She was a tall, lank girl, whose frocks, invariably too
large, hung round her as if they had nothing under them. Above a
deformed and puny body she had a sweet little doll-like head, a tiny
round face, pale and exquisitely delicate. Her infirmity almost became
graceful. Her body swayed gently at every step with a sort of rhythmical
swing.

This is an atom: 
[*] The chief female character in _L'Assommoir_ (_The Dramshop_).

This is an atom: 
The Macquarts' son, Jean,[*] was born three years later. He was a robust
child, in no respect recalling Gervaise. Like the eldest girl, he took
after his mother, without having any physical resemblance to her. He
was the first to import into the Rougon-Macquart stock a fat face with
regular features, which showed all the coldness of a grave yet not
over-intelligent nature. This boy grew up with the determination of
some day making an independent position for himself. He attended school
diligently, and tortured his dull brain to force a little arithmetic and
spelling into it. After that he became an apprentice, repeating much
the same efforts with a perseverance that was the more meritorious as it
took him a whole day to learn what others acquired in an hour.

This is an atom: 
[*] Figures prominently in _La Terre_ (_The Earth_) and _La
     Debacle_ (_The Downfall_).

This is an atom: 
As long as these poor little things remained a burden to the house,
Antoine grumbled. They were useless mouths that lessened his own share.
He vowed, like his brother, that he would have no more children, those
greedy creatures who bring their parents to penury. It was something to
hear him bemoan his lot when they sat five at table, and the mother gave
the best morsels to Jean, Lisa, and Gervaise.

This is an atom: 
"That's right," he would growl; "stuff them, make them burst!"

This is an atom: 
Whenever Fine bought a garment or a pair of boots for them, he would
sulk for days together. Ah! if he had only known, he would never had had
that pack of brats, who compelled him to limit his smoking to four sous'
worth of tobacco a day, and too frequently obliged him to eat stewed
potatoes for dinner, a dish which he heartily detested.

This is an atom: 
Later on, however, as soon as Jean and Gervaise earned their first
francs, he found some good in children after all. Lisa was no longer
there. He lived upon the earnings of the two others without compunction,
as he had already lived upon their mother. It was a well-planned
speculation on his part. As soon as little Gervaise was eight years old,
she went to a neighbouring dealer's to crack almonds; she there earned
ten sous a day, which her father pocketed right royally, without even
a question from Fine as to what became of the money. The young girl was
next apprenticed to a laundress, and as soon as she received two francs
a day for her work, the two francs strayed in a similar manner into
Macquart's hands. Jean, who had learnt the trade of a carpenter, was
likewise despoiled on pay-days, whenever Macquart succeeded in catching
him before he had handed the money to his mother. If the money escaped
Macquart, which sometimes happened, he became frightfully surly. He
would glare at his wife and children for a whole week, picking a quarrel
for nothing, although he was, as yet, ashamed to confess the real cause
of his irritations. On the next pay-day, however, he would station
himself on the watch, and as soon as he had succeeded in pilfering the
youngster's earnings, he disappeared for days together.

This is an atom: 
Gervaise, beaten and brought up in the streets among all the lads of the
neighbourhood, became a mother when she was fourteen years of age. The
father of her child was not eighteen years old. He was a journeyman
tanner named Lantier. At first Macquart was furious, but he calmed
down somewhat when he learnt that Lantier's mother, a worthy woman, was
willing to take charge of the child. He kept Gervaise, however; she was
then already earning twenty-five sous a day, and he therefore avoided
all question of marriage. Four years later she had a second child, which
was likewise taken in by Lantier's mother. This time Macquart shut his
eyes altogether. And when Fine timidly suggested that it was time to
come to some understanding with the tanner, in order to end a state of
things which made people chatter, he flatly declared that his daughter
should not leave him, and that he would give her to her lover later on,
"when he was worthy of her, and had enough money to furnish a home."

This is an atom: 
This was a fine time for Antoine Macquart. He dressed like a gentleman,
in frock-coats and trousers of the finest cloth. Cleanly shaved, and
almost fat, he was no longer the emaciated ragged vagabond who had been
wont to frequent the taverns. He dropped into cafes, read the papers,
and strolled on the Cours Sauvaire. He played the gentleman as long as
he had any money in his pocket. At times of impecuniosity he remained at
home, exasperated at being kept in his hovel and prevented from taking
his customary cup of coffee. On such occasions he would reproach the
whole human race with his poverty, making himself ill with rage and
envy, until Fine, out of pity, would often give him the last silver coin
in the house so that he might spend his evening at the cafe. This dear
fellow was fiercely selfish. Gervaise, who brought home as much as sixty
francs a month, wore only thin cotton frocks, while he had black satin
waistcoats made for him by one of the best tailors in Plassans.

This is an atom: 
Jean, the big lad who earned three or four francs a day, was perhaps
robbed even more impudently. The cafe where his father passed entire
days was just opposite his master's workshop, and while he had plane or
saw in hand he could see "Monsieur" Macquart on the other side of the
way, sweetening his coffee or playing piquet with some petty annuitant.
It was his money that the lazy old fellow was gambling away. He, Jean,
never stepped inside a cafe, he never had so much as five sous to pay
for a drink. Antoine treated him like a little girl, never leaving him a
centime, and always demanding an exact account of the manner in which he
had employed his time. If the unfortunate lad, led away by some of
his mates, wasted a day somewhere in the country, on the banks of the
Viorne, or on the slopes of Garrigues, his father would storm and raise
his hand, and long bear him a grudge on account of the four francs less
that he received at the end of the fortnight. He thus held his son in
a state of dependence, sometimes even looking upon the sweethearts whom
the young carpenter courted as his own. Several of Gervaise's friends
used to come to the Macquarts' house, work-girls from sixteen to
eighteen years of age, bold and boisterous girls who, on certain
evenings, filled the room with youth and gaiety. Poor Jean, deprived of
all pleasure, ever kept at home by the lack of money, looked at these
girls with longing eyes; but the childish life which he was compelled
to lead had implanted invincible shyness in him; in playing with his
sister's friends, he was hardly bold enough to touch them with the tips
of his fingers. Macquart used to shrug his shoulders with pity.

This is an atom: 
"What a simpleton!" he would mutter, with an air of ironical
superiority.

This is an atom: 
And it was he who would kiss the girls, when his wife's back was turned.
He carried his attentions even further with a little laundress whom Jean
pursued rather more earnestly than the others. One fine evening he stole
her almost from his arms. The old rogue prided himself on his gallantry.

This is an atom: 
There are some men who live upon their mistresses. Antoine Macquart
lived on his wife and children with as much shamelessness and impudence.
He did not feel the least compunction in pillaging the home and going
out to enjoy himself when the house was bare. He still assumed a
supercilious air, returning from the cafe only to rail against the
poverty and wretchedness that awaited him at home. He found the dinner
detestable, he called Gervaise a blockhead, and declared that Jean would
never be a man. Immersed in his own selfish indulgence, he rubbed his
hands whenever he had eaten the best piece in the dish; and then he
smoked his pipe, puffing slowly, while the two poor children, overcome
with fatigue, went to sleep with their heads resting on the table.
Thus Macquart passed his days in lazy enjoyment. It seemed to him quite
natural that he should be kept in idleness like a girl, to sprawl about
on the benches of some tavern, or stroll in the cool of the day along
the Cours or the Mail. At last he went so far as to relate his amorous
escapades in the presence of his son, who listened with glistening
eyes. The children never protested, accustomed as they were to see their
mother humble herself before her husband.

This is an atom: 
Fine, that strapping woman who drubbed him soundly when they were both
intoxicated, always trembled before him when she was sober, and allowed
him to rule despotically at home. He robbed her in the night of the
coppers which she had earned during the day at the market, but she
never dared to protest, except by veiled rebukes. Sometimes, when he had
squandered the week's money in advance, he accused her, poor thing, who
worked herself to death, of being stupid and not knowing how to manage.
Fine, as gentle as a lamb, replied, in her soft, clear voice, which
contrasted so strangely with her big figure, that she was no longer
twenty years old, and that money was becoming hard to earn. In order
to console herself, she would buy a pint of aniseed, and drink little
glassfuls of it with her daughter of an evening, after Antoine had gone
back to the cafe. EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE RESTORATION OF THE
LEASED TERRITORY OF KIAOCHOW BAY
--Note--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of
Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
In the name of my Government I have the honour to make the following
declaration to the Chinese Government:--
When, after the termination of the present war, the leased territory of
Kiaochow Bay is completely left to the free disposal of Japan, the Japanese
Government will restore the said leased territory to China under the
following conditions:--
1. The whole of Kiaochow Bay to be opened as a Commercial Port.

This is an atom: 
2. A concession under the exclusive jurisdiction of Japan to be
established at a place designated by the Japanese Government.

This is an atom: 
3.

This is an atom: 
If the foreign Powers desire it, an international concession may be
established.

This is an atom: 
4. As regards the disposal to be made of the buildings and properties
of Germany and the conditions and procedure relating thereto, the
Japanese Government and the Chinese Government shall arrange the
matter by mutual agreement before the restoration.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.

This is an atom: 
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic
of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's
note of this day's date in which you made the following declaration in
the name of your Government:--
"When, after the termination of the present war the leased territory
of Kiaochow Bay is completely left to the free disposal of Japan,
the Japanese Government will restore the said leased territory to China
under the following conditions:--
1. The whole of Kiaochow Bay to be opened as a Commercial Port.

This is an atom: 
2. A concession under the exclusive jurisdiction of Japan to be established
at a place designated by the Japanese Government.
3. If the foreign Powers desire it, an international concession may
be established.
4. As regards the disposal to be made of the buildings and properties
of Germany and the conditions and procedure relating thereto, the
Japanese Government and the Chinese Government shall arrange the
matter by mutual agreement before the restoration."
In reply, I beg to state that I have taken note of this declaration.
I avail, etc., 
(Signed) Lou TSENG-TSIANG.
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.
TREATY RESPECTING SOUTH MANCHURIA AND EASTERN INNER MONGOLIA
His Excellency the President of the Republic of China and His Majesty
the Emperor of Japan, having resolved to conclude a Treaty with a
view to developing their economic relations in South Manchuria and
Eastern Inner Mongolia, have for that purpose named as their
Plenipotentiaries, that is to say;
His Excellency the President of the Republic of China, Lou Tseng-
tsiang, Chung-ching, First Class Chia-ho Decoration, and Minister
of Foreign Affairs; And His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, Hioki
Eki, Jushii, Second Class of the Imperial Order of the Sacred
Treasure, Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary;
Who, after having communicated to each other their full powers, and
found them to be in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded
the following Articles:-- 
Article 1.He himself would
never have given a sou to a beggar.

This is an atom: 
That which chiefly converted him into a fierce Republican was the hope
of at last being able to revenge himself on the Rougons, who had openly
ranged themselves on the side of the reactionary party. Ah, what a
triumph if he could only hold Pierre and Felicite at his mercy! Although
the latter had not succeeded over well in business, they had at
last become gentlefolks, while he, Macquart, had still remained a
working-man. That exasperated him. Perhaps he was still more mortified
because one of their sons was a barrister, another a doctor, and the
third a clerk, while his son Jean merely worked at a carpenter's shop,
and his daughter Gervaise at a washerwoman's. When he compared the
Macquarts with the Rougons, he was still more ashamed to see his wife
selling chestnuts in the market, and mending the greasy old straw-seated
chairs of the neighbourhood in the evening. Pierre, after all, was but
his brother, and had no more right than himself to live fatly on his
income. Moreover, this brother was actually playing the gentleman with
money stolen from him. Whenever Macquart touched upon this subject, he
became fiercely enraged; he clamoured for hours together, incessantly
repeating his old accusations, and never wearying of exclaiming: "If
my brother was where he ought to be, I should be the moneyed man at the
present time!"

This is an atom: 
And when anyone asked him where his brother ought to be, he would reply,
"At the galleys!" in a formidable voice.

This is an atom: 
His hatred further increased when the Rougons had gathered the
Conservatives round them, and thus acquired a certain influence in
Plassans. The famous yellow drawing-room became, in his hare-brained
chatter at the cafe, a cave of bandits, an assembly of villains who
every evening swore on their daggers that they would murder the people.
In order to incite the starvelings against Pierre, Macquart went so far
as to circulate a report that the retired oil-dealer was not so poor as
he pretended, but that he concealed his treasures through avarice and
fear of robbery. His tactics thus tended to rouse the poor people by a
repetition of absurdly ridiculous tales, which he often came to believe
in himself. His personal animosity and his desire for revenge were ill
concealed beneath his professions of patriotism; but he was heard so
frequently, and he had such a loud voice, that no one would have dared
to doubt the genuineness of his convictions.

This is an atom: 
At bottom, all the members of this family had the same brutish passions.
Felicite, who clearly understood that Macquart's wild theories were
simply the fruit of restrained rage and embittered envy, would much have
liked to purchase his silence. Unfortunately, she was short of money,
and did not dare to interest him in the dangerous game which her husband
was playing. Antoine now injured them very much among the well-to-do
people of the new town. It sufficed that he was a relation of theirs.
Granoux and Roudier often scornfully reproached them for having such a
man in their family. Felicite consequently asked herself with anguish
how they could manage to cleanse themselves of such a stain.

This is an atom: 
It seemed to her monstrous and indecent that Monsieur Rougon should have
a brother whose wife sold chestnuts, and who himself lived in crapulous
idleness. She at last even trembled for the success of their secret
intrigues, so long as Antoine seemingly took pleasure in compromising
them. When the diatribes which he levelled at the yellow drawing-room
were reported to her, she shuddered at the thought that he was capable
of becoming desperate and ruining all their hopes by force of scandal.

This is an atom: 
Antoine knew what consternation his demeanour must cause the Rougons,
and it was solely for the purpose of exhausting their patience that he
from day to day affected fiercer opinions. At the cafe he frequented
he used to speak of "my brother Pierre" in a voice which made everybody
turn round; and if he happened to meet some reactionary from the yellow
drawing-room in the street, he would mutter some low abuse which the
worthy citizen, amazed at such audacity, would repeat to the Rougons
in the evening, as though to make them responsible for his disagreeable
encounter.

This is an atom: 
One day Granoux arrived in a state of fury.

This is an atom: 
"Really," he exclaimed, when scarcely across the threshold, "it's
intolerable; one can't move a step without being insulted." Then,
addressing Pierre, he added: "When one has a brother like yours, sir,
one should rid society of him. I was just quietly walking past the
Sub-Prefecture, when that rascal passed me muttering something in which
I could clearly distinguish the words 'old rogue.'"

This is an atom: 
Felicite turned pale, and felt it necessary to apologise to Granoux, but
he refused to accept any excuses, and threatened to leave altogether.
The marquis, however, exerted himself to arrange matters.

This is an atom: 
"It is very strange," he said, "that the wretched fellow should have
called you an old rogue. Are you sure that he intended the insult for
you?"

This is an atom: 
Granoux was perplexed; he admitted at last, however, that Antoine might
have muttered: "So you are again going to that old rogue's?"

This is an atom: 
At this Monsieur de Carnavant stroked his chin to conceal the smile
which rose to his lips in spite of himself.

This is an atom: 
Then Rougon, with superb composure, replied: "I thought as much; the
'old rogue' was no doubt intended for me. I've very glad that this
misunderstanding is now cleared up. Gentlemen, pray avoid the man in
question, whom I formally repudiate."

This is an atom: 
Felicite, however, did not take matters so coolly; every fresh scandal
caused by Macquart made her more and more uneasy; she would sometimes
pass the whole night wondering what those gentlemen must think of the
matter.

This is an atom: 
A few months before the Coup d'Etat, the Rougons received an anonymous
letter, three pages of foul insults, in which they were warned that
if their party should ever triumph, the scandalous story of Adelaide's
amours would be published in some newspaper, together with an account
of the robbery perpetrated by Pierre, when he had compelled his mother,
driven out of her senses by debauchery, to sign a receipt for fifty
thousand francs. This letter was a heavy blow for Rougon himself.
Felicite could not refrain from reproaching her husband with his
disreputable family; for the husband and wife never for a moment doubted
that this letter was Antoine's work.

This is an atom: 
"We shall have to get rid of the blackguard at any price," said Pierre
in a gloomy tone. "He's becoming too troublesome by far."

This is an atom: 
In the meantime, Macquart, resorting to his former tactics, looked round
among his own relatives for accomplices who would join him against the
Rougons. He had counted upon Aristide at first, on reading his terrible
articles in the "Independant." But the young man, in spite of all his
jealous rage, was not so foolish as to make common cause with such
a fellow as his uncle. He never even minced matters with him, but
invariably kept him at a distance, a circumstance which induced Antoine
to regard him suspiciously. In the taverns, where Macquart reigned
supreme, people went so far as to say the journalist was paid to provoke
disturbances.

This is an atom: 
Baffled on this side, Macquart had no alternative but to sound his
sister Ursule's children. Ursule had died in 1839, thus fulfilling her
brother's evil prophecy. The nervous affection which she had inherited
from her mother had turned into slow consumption, which gradually killed
her. She left three children; a daughter, eighteen years of age, named
Helene, who married a clerk, and two boys, the elder, Francois, a young
man of twenty-three, and the younger, a sickly little fellow scarcely
six years old, named Silvere. The death of his wife, whom he adored,
proved a thunderbolt to Mouret. He dragged on his existence for another
year, neglecting his business and losing all the money he had saved.
Then, one morning, he was found hanging in a cupboard where Ursule's
dresses were still suspended. His elder son, who had received a good
commercial training, took a situation in the house of his uncle Rougon,
where he replaced Aristide, who had just left.

This is an atom: 
Rougon, in spite of his profound hatred for the Macquarts, gladly
welcomed this nephew, whom he knew to be industrious and sober. He
was in want of a youth whom he could trust, and who would help him to
retrieve his affairs. Moreover, during the time of Mouret's prosperity,
he had learnt to esteem the young couple, who knew how to make money,
and thus he had soon become reconciled with his sister. Perhaps he
thought he was making Francois some compensation by taking him into his
business; having robbed the mother, he would shield himself from remorse
by giving employment to the son; even rogues make honest calculations
sometimes. It was, however, a good thing for him. If the house of Rougon
did not make a fortune at this time, it was certainly through no fault
of that quiet, punctilious youth, Francois, who seemed born to pass his
life behind a grocer's counter, between a jar of oil and a bundle
of dried cod-fish. Although he physically resembled his mother, he
inherited from his father a just if narrow mind, with an instinctive
liking for a methodical life and the safe speculations of a small
business.

This is an atom: 
Three months after his arrival, Pierre, pursuing his system of
compensation, married him to his young daughter Marthe,[*] whom he did
not know how to dispose of. The two young people fell in love with
each other quite suddenly, in a few days. A peculiar circumstance had
doubtless determined and enhanced their mutual affection. There was a
remarkably close resemblance between them, suggesting that of brother
and sister. Francois inherited, through Ursule, the face of his
grandmother Adelaide. Marthe's case was still more curious; she was an
equally exact portrait of Adelaide, although Pierre Rougon had none of
his mother's features distinctly marked; the physical resemblance
had, as it were, passed over Pierre, to reappear in his daughter. The
similarity between husband and wife went, however, no further than
their faces; if the worthy son of a steady matter-of-fact hatter was
distinguishable in Francois, Marthe showed the nervousness and mental
weakness of her grandmother. Perhaps it was this combination of physical
resemblance and moral dissimilarity which threw the young people into
each other's arms. From 1840 to 1844 they had three children. Francois
remained in his uncle's employ until the latter retired. Pierre had
desired to sell him the business, but the young man knew what small
chance there was of making a fortune in trade at Plassans; so he
declined the offer and repaired to Marseilles, where he established
himself with his little savings.

This is an atom: 
[*] Both Francois and Marthe figure largely in _The Conquest
     of Plassans_.

This is an atom: 
Macquart soon had to abandon all hope of dragging this big industrious
fellow into his campaign against the Rougons; whereupon, with all the
spite of a lazybones, he regarded him as a cunning miser. He fancied,
however, that he had discovered the accomplice he was seeking in
Mouret's second son, a lad of fifteen years of age. Young Silvere had
never even been to school at the time when Mouret was found hanging
among his wife's skirts. His elder brother, not knowing what to do
with him, took him also to his uncle's. The latter made a wry face on
beholding the child; he had no intention of carrying his compensation so
far as to feed a useless mouth. Thus Silvere, to whom Felicite also took
a dislike, was growing up in tears, like an unfortunate little outcast,
when his grandmother Adelaide, during one of the rare visits she paid
the Rougons, took pity on him, and expressed a wish to have him with
her. Pierre was delighted; he let the child go, without even suggesting
an increase of the paltry allowance that he made Adelaide, and which
henceforward would have to suffice for two.

This is an atom: 
Adelaide was then nearly seventy-five years of age. Grown old while
leading a cloistered existence, she was no longer the lanky ardent girl
who formerly ran to embrace the smuggler Macquart. She had stiffened and
hardened in her hovel in the Impasse Saint-Mittre, that dismal silent
hole where she lived entirely alone on potatoes and dry vegetables, and
which she did not leave once in the course of a month. On seeing her
pass, you might have thought her to be one of those delicately white old
nuns with automatic gait, whom the cloister has kept apart from all the
concerns of this world. Her pale face, always scrupulously girt with a
white cap, looked like that of a dying woman; a vague, calm countenance
it was, wearing an air of supreme indifference. Prolonged taciturnity
had made her dumb; the darkness of her dwelling and the continual
sight of the same objects had dulled her glance and given her eyes the
limpidity of spring water. Absolute renunciation, slow physical and
moral death, had little by little converted this crazy _amorosa_ into a
grave matron. When, as often happened, a blank stare came into her
eyes, and she gazed before her without seeing anything, one could detect
utter, internal void through those deep bright cavities.

This is an atom: 
Nothing now remained of her former voluptuous ardour but weariness of
the flesh and a senile tremor of the hands. She had once loved like
a she-wolf, but was now wasted, already sufficiently worn out for the
grave. There had been strange workings of her nerves during her long
years of chastity. A dissolute life would perhaps have wrecked her less
than the slow hidden ravages of unsatisfied fever which had modified her
organism.

This is an atom: 
Sometimes, even now, this moribund, pale old woman, who seemed to have
no blood left in her, was seized with nervous fits like electric shocks,
which galvanised her, and for an hour brought her atrocious intensity of
life. She would lie on her bed rigid, with her eyes open; then hiccoughs
would come upon her and she would writhe and struggle, acquiring the
frightful strength of those hysterical madwomen whom one has to tie down
in order to prevent them from breaking their heads against a wall.
This return to former vigour, these sudden attacks, gave her a terrible
shock. When she came to again, she would stagger about with such a
scared, stupefied look, that the gossips of the Faubourg used to say:
"She's been drinking, the crazy old thing!"

This is an atom: 
Little Silvere's childish smile was for her the last pale ray which
brought some warmth to her frozen limbs. Weary of solitude, and
frightened at the thought of dying alone in one of her fits, she had
asked to have the child. With the little fellow running about near
her, she felt secure against death. Without relinquishing her habits of
taciturnity, or seeking to render her automatic movements more supple,
she conceived inexpressible affection for him. Stiff and speechless, she
would watch him playing for hours together, listening with delight to
the intolerable noise with which he filled the old hovel. That tomb
had resounded with uproar ever since Silvere had been running about it,
bestriding broomsticks, knocking up against the doors, and shouting and
crying. He brought Adelaide back to the world, as it were; she looked
after him with the most adorable awkwardness; she who, in her youth,
had neglected the duties of a mother, now felt the divine pleasures
of maternity in washing his face, dressing him, and watching over his
sickly life. It was a reawakening of love, a last soothing passion which
heaven had granted to this woman who had been so ravaged by the want of
some one to love; the touching agony of a heart that had lived amidst
the most acute desires, and which was now dying full of love for a
child.

This is an atom: 
She was already too far gone to pour forth the babble of good plump
grandmothers; she adored the child in secret with the bashfulness of a
young girl, without knowing how to fondle him. Sometimes she took him on
her knees, and gazed at him for a long time with her pale eyes. When
the little one, frightened by her mute white visage, began to cry, she
seemed perplexed by what she had done, and quickly put him down upon the
floor without even kissing him. Perhaps she recognised in him a faint
resemblance to Macquart the poacher.

This is an atom: 
Silvere grew up, ever tete-a-tete with Adelaide. With childish cajolery
he used to call her aunt Dide, a name which ultimately clung to the
old woman; the word "aunt" employed in this way is simply a term of
endearment in Provence. The child entertained singular affection, not
unmixed with respectful terror, for his grandmother. During her nervous
fits, when he was quite a little boy, he ran away from her, crying,
terrified by her disfigured countenance; and he came back very timidly
after the attack, ready to run away again, as though the old woman were
disposed to beat him. Later on, however, when he was twelve years old,
he would stop there bravely and watch in order that she might not hurt
herself by falling off the bed. He stood for hours holding her tightly
in his arms to subdue the rude shocks which distorted her. During
intervals of calmness he would gaze with pity on her convulsed features
and withered frame, over which her skirts lay like a shroud. These
hidden dramas, which recurred every month, this old woman as rigid as
a corpse, this child bent over her, silently watching for the return
of consciousness, made up amidst the darkness of the hovel a strange
picture of mournful horror and broken-hearted tenderness.

This is an atom: 
When aunt Dide came round, she would get up with difficulty, and set
about her work in the hovel without even questioning Silvere. She
remembered nothing, and the child, from a sort of instinctive prudence,
avoided the least allusion to what had taken place. These recurring
fits, more than anything else, strengthened Silvere's deep attachment
for his grandmother. In the same manner as she adored him without any
garrulous effusiveness, he felt a secret, almost bashful, affection for
her. While he was really very grateful to her for having taken him in
and brought him up, he could not help regarding her as an extraordinary
creature, a prey to some strange malady, whom he ought to pity and
respect. No doubt there was not sufficient life left in Adelaide; she
was too white and too stiff for Silvere to throw himself on her neck.
Thus they lived together amidst melancholy silence, in the depths of
which they felt the tremor of boundless love.

This is an atom: 
The sad, solemn atmosphere, which he had breathed from childhood, gave
Silvere a strong heart, in which gathered every form of enthusiasm. He
early became a serious, thoughtful little man, seeking instruction with
a kind of stubbornness. He only learnt a little spelling and arithmetic
at the school of the Christian Brothers, which he was compelled to leave
when he was but twelve years old, on account of his apprenticeship. He
never acquired the first rudiments of knowledge. However, he read all
the odd volumes which fell into his hands, and thus provided himself
with strange equipment; he had some notions of a multitude of subjects,
ill-digested notions, which he could never classify distinctly in his
head. When he was quite young, he had been in the habit of playing in
the workshop of a master wheelwright, a worthy man named Vian, who lived
at the entrance of the blind-alley in front of the Aire Saint-Mittre
where he stored his timber. Silvere used to jump up on the wheels of the
tilted carts undergoing repair, and amuse himself by dragging about
the heavy tools which his tiny hands could scarcely lift. One of his
greatest pleasures, too, was to assist the workmen by holding some piece
of wood for them, or bringing them the iron-work which they required.
When he had grown older he naturally became apprenticed to Vian. The
latter had taken a liking to the little fellow who was always kicking
about his heels, and asked Adelaide to let him come, refusing to take
anything for his board and lodging. Silvere eagerly accepted, already
foreseeing the time when he would be able to make his poor aunt Dide
some return for all she had spent upon him.

This is an atom: 
In a short time he became an excellent workman. He cherished, however,
much higher ambitions. Having once seen, at a coachbuilder's at
Plassans, a fine new carriage, shining with varnish, he vowed that he
would one day build carriages himself. He remembered this carriage as
a rare and unique work of art, an ideal towards which his aspirations
should tend. The tilted carts at which he worked in Vian's shop, those
carts which he had lovingly cherished, now seemed unworthy of his
affections. He began to attend the local drawing-school, where he formed
a connection with a youngster who had left college, and who lent him an
old treatise on geometry. He plunged into this study without a guide,
racking his brains for weeks together in order to grasp the simplest
problem in the world. In this matter he gradually became one of those
learned workmen who can hardly sign their name and yet talk about
algebra as though it were an intimate friend.

This is an atom: 
Nothing unsettles the mind so much as this desultory kind of education,
which reposes on no firm basis. Most frequently such scraps of knowledge
convey an absolutely false idea of the highest truths, and render
persons of limited intellect insufferably stupid. In Silvere's case,
however, his scraps of stolen knowledge only augmented his liberal
aspirations. He was conscious of horizons which at present remained
closed to him. He formed for himself divine conceptions of things beyond
his reach, and lived on, regarding in a deep, innocent, religious way
the noble thoughts and grand conceptions towards which he was raising
himself, but which he could not as yet comprehend. He was one of the
simple-minded, one whose simplicity was divine, and who had remained
on the threshold of the temple, kneeling before the tapers which from a
distance he took for stars.

This is an atom: 
The hovel in the Impasse Saint-Mittre consisted, in the first place,
of a large room into which the street door opened. The only pieces of
furniture in this room, which had a stone floor, and served both as a
kitchen and a dining-room, were some straw-seated chairs, a table on
trestles, and an old coffer which Adelaide had converted into a sofa, by
spreading a piece of woollen stuff over the lid. In the left hand
corner of the large fireplace stood a plaster image of the Holy Virgin,
surrounded by artificial flowers; she is the traditional good mother of
all old Provencal women, however irreligious they may be. A passage led
from the room into a yard situated at the rear of the house; in this
yard there was a well. Aunt Dide's bedroom was on the left side of the
passage; it was a little apartment containing an iron bedstead and one
chair; Silvere slept in a still smaller room on the right hand side,
just large enough for a trestle bedstead; and he had been obliged to
plan a set of shelves, reaching up to the ceiling, to keep by him
all those dear odd volumes which he saved his sous to purchase from a
neighbouring general dealer. When he read at night-time, he would hang
his lamp on a nail at the head of the bed. If his grandmother had an
attack, he merely had to leap out at the first gasp to be at her side in
a moment.

This is an atom: 
The young man led the life of a child. He passed his existence in this
lonely spot. Like his father, he felt a dislike for taverns and Sunday
strolling. His mates wounded his delicate susceptibilities by their
coarse jokes. He preferred to read, to rack his rain over some simple
geometrical problem. Since aunt Dide had entrusted him with the
little household commissions she did not go out at all, but ceased all
intercourse even with her family. The young man sometimes thought of her
forlornness; he reflected that the poor old woman lived but a few steps
from the children who strove to forget her, as though she were dead;
and this made him love her all the more, for himself and for the others.
When he at times entertained a vague idea that aunt Dide might be
expiating some former transgressions, he would say to himself: "I was
born to pardon her."

This is an atom: 
A nature such as Silvere's, ardent yet self-restrained, naturally
cherished the most exalted republican ideas. At night, in his little
hovel, Silvere would again and again read a work of Rousseau's which he
had picked up at the neighbouring dealer's among a number of old locks.
The reading of this book kept him awake till daylight. Amidst his dream
of universal happiness so dear to the poor, the words liberty, equality,
fraternity, rang in his ears like those sonorous sacred calls of the
bells, at the sound of which the faithful fall upon their knees. When,
therefore, he learnt that the Republic had just been proclaimed in
France he fancied that the whole world would enjoy a life of celestial
beatitude. His knowledge, though imperfect, made him see farther than
other workmen; his aspirations did not stop at daily bread; but his
extreme ingenuousness, his complete ignorance of mankind, kept him
in the dreamland of theory, a Garden of Eden where universal justice
reigned. His paradise was for a long time a delightful spot in which he
forgot himself.

This is an atom: 
When he came to perceive that things did not go on quite satisfactorily
in the best of republics he was sorely grieved, and indulged in another
dream, that of compelling men to be happy even by force. Every act which
seemed to him prejudicial to the interest of the people roused him to
revengeful indignation. Though he was as gentle as a child, he cherished
the fiercest political animosity. He would not have killed a fly, and
yet he was for ever talking of a call to arms. Liberty was his passion,
an unreasoning, absolute passion, to which he gave all the feverish
ardour of his blood. Blinded by enthusiasm, he was both too ignorant and
too learned to be tolerant, and would not allow for men's weaknesses; he
required an ideal government of perfect justice and perfect liberty. It
was at this period that Antoine Macquart thought of setting him against
the Rougons. He fancied that this young enthusiast would work terrible
havoc if he were only exasperated to the proper pitch. This calculation
was not altogether devoid of shrewdness.

This is an atom: 
Such being Antoine's scheme, he tried to induce Silvere to visit him, by
professing inordinate admiration for the young man's ideas. But he
very nearly compromised the whole matter at the outset. He had a way
of regarding the triumph of the Republic as a question of personal
interest, as an era of happy idleness and endless junketing, which
chilled his nephew's purely moral aspirations. However, he perceived
that he was on the wrong track, and plunged into strange bathos, a
string of empty but high-sounding words, which Silvere accepted as a
satisfactory proof of his civism. Before long the uncle and the nephew
saw each other two or three times a week. During their long discussions,
in which the fate of the country was flatly settled, Antoine endeavoured
to persuade the young man that the Rougons' drawing-room was the chief
obstacle to the welfare of France. But he again made a false move by
calling his mother "old jade" in Silvere's presence. He even repeated to
him the early scandals about the poor woman. The young man blushed for
shame, but listened without interruption. He had not asked his uncle
for this information; he felt heart-broken by such confidences, which
wounded his feeling of respectful affection for aunt Dide. From that
time forward he lavished yet more attention upon his grandmother,
greeting her always with pleasant smiles and looks of forgiveness.
However, Macquart felt that he had acted foolishly, and strove to take
advantage of Silvere's affection for Adelaide by charging the Rougons
with her forlornness and poverty. According to him, he had always been
the best of sons, whereas his brother had behaved disgracefully; Pierre
had robbed his mother, and now, when she was penniless, he was ashamed
of her. He never ceased descanting on this subject. Silvere thereupon
became indignant with his uncle Pierre, much to the satisfaction of his
uncle Antoine.

This is an atom: 
The scene was much the same every time the young man called. He used
to come in the evening, while the Macquarts were at dinner. The father
would be swallowing some potato stew with a growl, picking out the
pieces of bacon, and watching the dish when it passed into the hands of
Jean and Gervaise.

This is an atom: 
"You see, Silvere," he would say with a sullen rage which was
ill-concealed beneath his air of cynical indifference, "more potatoes,
always potatoes! We never eat anything else now. Meat is only for
rich people. It's getting quite impossible to make both ends meet with
children who have the devil's appetite and their own too."

This is an atom: 
Gervaise and Jean bent over their plates, no longer even daring to cut
some bread. Silvere, who in his dream lived in heaven, did not grasp the
situation. In a calm voice he pronounced these storm-laden words:

This is an atom: 
"But you should work, uncle."

This is an atom: 
"Ah! yes," sneered Macquart, stung to the quick. "You want me to work,
eh! To let those beggars, the rich folk, continue to prey upon me. I
should earn probably twenty sous a day, and ruin my constitution. It's
worth while, isn't it?"

This is an atom: 
"Everyone earns what he can," the young man replied. "Twenty sous are
twenty sous; and it all helps in a home. Besides, you're an old soldier,
why don't you seek some employment?"

This is an atom: 
Fine would then interpose, with a thoughtlessness of which she soon
repented.

This is an atom: 
"That's what I'm always telling him," said she. "The market inspector
wants an assistant; I mentioned my husband to him, and he seems well
disposed towards us."

This is an atom: 
But Macquart interrupted her with a fulminating glance. "Eh! hold
your tongue," he growled with suppressed anger. "Women never know
what they're talking about! Nobody would have me; my opinions are too
well-known."

This is an atom: 
Every time he was offered employment he displayed similar irritation. He
did not cease, however, to ask for situations, though he always refused
such as were found for him, assigning the most extraordinary reasons.
When pressed upon the point he became terrible.

This is an atom: 
If Jean were to take up a newspaper after dinner he would at once
exclaim: "You'd better go to bed. You'll be getting up late to-morrow,
and that'll be another day lost. To think of that young rascal coming
home with eight francs short last week! However, I've requested his
master not give him his money in future; I'll call for it myself."

This is an atom: 
Jean would go to bed to avoid his father's recriminations. He had but
little sympathy with Silvere; politics bored him, and he thought his
cousin "cracked." When only the women remained, if they unfortunately
started some whispered converse after clearing the table, Macquart would
cry: "Now, you idlers! Is there nothing that requires mending? we're
all in rags. Look here, Gervaise, I was at your mistress's to-day, and I
learnt some fine things. You're a good-for-nothing, a gad-about."

This is an atom: 
Gervaise, now a grown girl of more than twenty, coloured up at
thus being scolded in the presence of Silvere, who himself felt
uncomfortable. One evening, having come rather late, when his uncle was
not at home, he had found the mother and daughter intoxicated before
an empty bottle. From that time he could never see his cousin without
recalling the disgraceful spectacle she had presented, with the maudlin
grin and large red patches on her poor, pale, puny face. He was not
less shocked by the nasty stories that circulated with regard to her.
He sometimes looked at her stealthily, with the timid surprise of a
schoolboy in the presence of a disreputable character.

This is an atom: 
When the two women had taken up their needles, and were ruining their
eyesight in order to mend his old shirts, Macquart, taking the best
seat, would throw himself back with an air of delicious comfort, and sip
and smoke like a man who relishes his laziness. This was the time when
the old rogue generally railed against the wealthy for living on
the sweat of the poor man's brow. He was superbly indignant with the
gentlemen of the new town, who lived so idly, and compelled the poor
to keep them in luxury. The fragments of communistic notions which he
culled from the newspapers in the morning became grotesque and monstrous
on falling from his lips. He would talk of a time near at hand when
no one would be obliged to work. He always, however, kept his fiercest
animosity for the Rougons. He never could digest the potatoes he had
eaten.

This is an atom: 
"I saw that vile creature Felicite buying a chicken in the market this
morning," he would say. "Those robbers of inheritances must eat chicken,
forsooth!"

This is an atom: 
"Aunt Dide," interposed Silvere, "says that uncle Pierre was very kind
to you when you left the army. Didn't he spend a large sum of money in
lodging and clothing you?"

This is an atom: 
"A large sum of money!" roared Macquart in exasperation; "your
grandmother is mad. It was those thieves who spread those reports
themselves, so as to close my mouth. I never had anything."

This is an atom: 
Fine again foolishly interfered, reminding him that he had received two
hundred francs, besides a suit of clothes and a year's rent. Antoine
thereupon shouted to her to hold her tongue, and continued, with
increasing fury: "Two hundred francs! A fine thing! I want my due, ten
thousand francs. Ah! yes, talk of the hole they shoved me into like a
dog, and the old frock-coat which Pierre gave me because he was ashamed
to wear it any longer himself, it was so dirty and ragged!"

This is an atom: 
He was not speaking the truth; but, seeing the rage that he was in,
nobody ventured to protest any further. Then, turning towards Silvere:
"It's very stupid of you to defend them!" he added. "They robbed your
mother, who, good woman, would be alive now if she had had the means of
taking care of herself."

This is an atom: 
"Oh! you're not just, uncle," the young man said; "my mother did not
die for want of attention, and I'm certain my father would never have
accepted a sou from his wife's family!"

This is an atom: 
"Pooh! don't talk to me! your father would have taken the money just
like anybody else. We were disgracefully plundered, and it's high time
we had our rights."

This is an atom: 
Then Macquart, for the hundredth time, began to recount the story of
the fifty thousand francs. His nephew, who knew it by heart, and all
the variations with which he embellished it, listened to him rather
impatiently.

This is an atom: 
"If you were a man," Antoine would say in conclusion, "you would come
some day with me, and we would kick up a nice row at the Rougons. We
would not leave without having some money given us."

This is an atom: 
Silvere, however, grew serious, and frankly replied: "If those wretches
robbed us, so much the worse for them. I don't want their money. You
see, uncle, it's not for us to fall on our relatives. If they've done
wrong, well, one of these days they'll be severely punished for it."

This is an atom: 
"Ah! what a big simpleton you are!" the uncle cried. "When we have the
upper hand, you'll see whether I sha'n't settle my own little affairs
myself. God cares a lot about us indeed! What a foul family ours is!
Even if I were starving to death, not one of those scoundrels would
throw me a dry crust."

This is an atom: 
Whenever Macquart touched upon this subject, he proved inexhaustible. He
bared all his bleeding wounds of envy and covetousness. He grew mad
with rage when he came to think that he was the only unlucky one in the
family, and was forced to eat potatoes, while the others had meat to
their heart's content. He would pass all his relations in review, even
his grand-nephews, and find some grievance and reason for threatening
every one of them.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, yes," he repeated bitterly, "they'd leave me to die like a dog."

This is an atom: 
Gervaise, without raising her head or ceasing to ply her needle, would
sometimes say timidly: "Still, father, cousin Pascal was very kind to
us, last year, when you were ill."

This is an atom: 
"He attended you without charging a sou," continued Fine, coming to her
daughter's aid, "and he often slipped a five-franc piece into my hand to
make you some broth."

This is an atom: 
"He! he'd have killed me if I hadn't had a strong constitution!"
Macquart retorted. "Hold your tongues, you fools! You'd let yourselves
be twisted about like children. They'd all like to see me dead. When I'm
ill again, I beg you not to go and fetch my nephew, for I didn't feel at
all comfortable in his hands. He's only a twopenny-halfpenny doctor, and
hasn't got a decent patient in all his practice."

This is an atom: 
When once Macquart was fully launched, he could not stop. "It's like
that little viper, Aristide," he would say, "a false brother, a traitor.
Are you taken in by his articles in the 'Independant,' Silvere? You
would be a fine fool if you were. They're not even written in good
French; I've always maintained that this contraband Republican is in
league with his worthy father to humbug us. You'll see how he'll turn
his coat. And his brother, the illustrious Eugene, that big blockhead
of whom the Rougons make such a fuss! Why, they've got the impudence to
assert that he occupies a good position in Paris! I know something about
his position; he's employed at the Rue de Jerusalem; he's a police spy."

This is an atom: 
"Who told you so? You know nothing about it," interrupted Silvere, whose
upright spirit at last felt hurt by his uncle's lying accusations.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! I know nothing about it? Do you think so? I tell you he is a
police spy. You'll be shorn like a lamb one of these days, with your
benevolence. You're not manly enough. I don't want to say anything
against your brother Francois; but, if I were in your place, I shouldn't
like the scurvy manner in which he treats you. He earns a heap of money
at Marseilles, and yet he never sends you a paltry twenty-franc pierce
for pocket money. If ever you become poor, I shouldn't advise you to
look to him for anything."

This is an atom: 
"I've no need of anybody," the young man replied in a proud and slightly
injured tone of voice. "My own work suffices for aunt Dide and myself.
You're cruel, uncle."

This is an atom: 
"I only say what's true, that's all. I should like to open your eyes.
Our family is a disreputable lot; it's sad but true. Even that little
Maxime, Aristide's son, that little nine-year-old brat, pokes his
tongue out at me when me meets me. That child will some day beat his
own mother, and a good job too! Say what you like, all those folks don't
deserve their luck; but it's always like this in families, the good ones
suffer while the bad ones make their fortunes."

This is an atom: 
All this dirty linen, which Macquart washed with such complacency before
his nephew, profoundly disgusted the young man. He would have liked to
soar back into his dream. As soon as he began to show unmistakable signs
of impatience, Antoine would employ strong expedients to exasperate him
against their relatives.

This is an atom: 
"Defend them! Defend them!" he would say, appearing to calm down. "I,
for my part, have arranged to have nothing more to do with them. I only
mention the matter out of pity for my poor mother, whom all that gang
treat in a most revolting manner."

This is an atom: 
"They are wretches!" Silvere murmured.

This is an atom: 
"Oh! you don't know, you don't understand. These Rougons pour all sorts
of insults and abuse on the good woman. Aristide has forbidden his son
even to recognise her. Felicite talks of having her placed in a lunatic
asylum."

This is an atom: 
The young man, as white as a sheet, abruptly interrupted his uncle:
"Enough!" he cried. "I don't want to know any more about it. There will
have to be an end to all this."

This is an atom: 
"I'll hold my tongue, since it annoys you," the old rascal replied,
feigning a good-natured manner. "Still, there are some things that
you ought not to be ignorant of, unless you want to play the part of a
fool."

This is an atom: 
Macquart, while exerting himself to set Silvere against the Rougons,
experienced the keenest pleasure on drawing tears of anguish from the
young man's eyes. He detested him, perhaps, more than he did the others,
and this because he was an excellent workman and never drank. He brought
all his instincts of refined cruelty into play, in order to invent
atrocious falsehoods which should sting the poor lad to the heart; then
he revelled in his pallor, his trembling hands and his heart-rending
looks, with the delight of some evil spirit who measures his stabs and
finds that he has struck his victim in the right place. When he thought
that he had wounded and exasperated Silvere sufficiently, he would at
last touch upon politics.

This is an atom: 
"I've been assured," he would say, lowering his voice, "that the Rougons
are preparing some treachery."

This is an atom: 
"Treachery?" Silvere asked, becoming attentive.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, one of these nights they are going to seize all the good citizens
of the town and throw them into prison."

This is an atom: 
The young man was at first disposed to doubt it, but his uncle gave
precise details; he spoke of lists that had been drawn up, he mentioned
the persons whose names were on these lists, he indicated in what
manner, at what hour, and under what circumstances the plot would be
carried into effect. Silvere gradually allowed himself to be taken in
by this old woman's tale, and was soon raving against the enemies of the
Republic.

This is an atom: 
"It's they that we shall have to reduce to impotence if they persist in
betraying the country!" he cried. "And what do they intend to do with
the citizens whom they arrest?"

This is an atom: 
"What do they intend to do with them? Why, they will shoot them in the
lowest dungeons of the prison, of course," replied Macquart, with a
hoarse laugh. And as the young man, stupefied with horror, looked at
him without knowing what to say: "This will not be the first lot to be
assassinated there," he continued. "You need only go and prowl about the
Palais de Justice of an evening to hear the shots and groans."

This is an atom: 
"Oh, the wretches!" Silvere murmured.

This is an atom: 
Thereupon uncle and nephew launched out into high politics. Fine and
Gervaise, on finding them hotly debating things, quietly went to bed
without attracting their attention. Then the two men remained together
till midnight, commenting on the news from Paris and discussing the
approaching and inevitable struggle. Macquart bitterly denounced the men
of his own party, Silvere dreamed his dream of ideal liberty aloud, and
for himself only. Strange conversations these were, during which the
uncle poured out many a little nip for himself, and from which the
nephew emerged quite intoxicated with enthusiasm. Antoine, however,
never succeeded in obtaining from the young Republican any perfidious
suggestion or play of warfare against the Rougons. In vain he tried to
goad him on; he seldom heard him suggest aught but an appeal to eternal
justice, which sooner or later would punish the evil-doers.

This is an atom: 
The ingenuous youth did indeed speak warmly of taking up arms and
massacring the enemies of the Republic; but, as soon as these enemies
strayed out of his dream or became personified in his uncle Pierre or
any other person of his acquaintance, he relied upon heaven to spare
him the horror of shedding blood. It is very probable that he would have
ceased visiting Macquart, whose jealous fury made him so uncomfortable,
if he had not tasted the pleasure of being able to speak freely of his
dear Republic there. In the end, however, his uncle exercised decisive
influence over his destiny; he irritated his nerves by his everlasting
diatribes, and succeeded in making him eager for an armed struggle, the
conquest of universal happiness by violence.

This is an atom: 
When Silvere reached his sixteenth year, Macquart had him admitted into
the secret society of the Montagnards, a powerful association whose
influence extended throughout Southern France. From that moment the
young Republican gazed with longing eyes at the smuggler's carbine,
which Adelaide had hung over her chimney-piece. Once night, while his
grandmother was asleep, he cleaned and put it in proper condition. Then
he replaced it on its nail and waited, indulging in brilliant reveries,
fancying gigantic epics, Homeric struggles, and knightly tournaments,
whence the defenders of liberty would emerge victorious and acclaimed by
the whole world.

This is an atom: 
Macquart meantime was not discouraged. He said to himself that he would
be able to strangle the Rougons alone if he could ever get them into a
corner. His envious rage and slothful greed were increased by certain
successive accidents which compelled him to resume work. In the early
part of 1850 Fine died, almost suddenly, from inflammation of the lungs,
which she had caught by going one evening to wash the family linen in
the Viorne, and carrying it home wet on her back. She returned soaked
with water and perspiration, bowed down by her load, which was terribly
heavy, and she never recovered.

This is an atom: 
Her death filled Macquart with consternation. His most reliable source
of income was gone. When, a few days later, he sold the caldron in which
his wife had boiled her chestnuts, and the wooden horse which she used
in reseating old chairs, he foully accused the Divinity of having robbed
him of that strong strapping woman of whom he had often felt ashamed,
but whose real worth he now appreciated. He now also fell upon the
children's earnings with greater avidity than ever. But, a month later,
Gervaise, tired of his continual exactions, ran away with her two
children and Lantier, whose mother was dead. The lovers took refuge in
Paris. Antoine, overwhelmed, vented his rage against his daughter by
expressing the hope that she might die in hospital like most of her
kind. This abuse did not, however, improve the situation, which was
decidedly becoming bad. Jean soon followed his sister's example. He
waited for pay-day to come round, and then contrived to receive the
money himself. As he was leaving he told one of his friends, who
repeated it to Antoine, that he would no longer keep his lazy father,
and that if the latter should take it into his head to have him brought
back by the gendarmes he would touch neither saw nor plane.

This is an atom: 
On the morrow, when Antoine, having vainly sought him, found himself
alone and penniless in the house where for twenty years he had been
comfortably kept, he flew into the most frantic rage, kicked the
furniture about, and yelled the vilest imprecations. Then he sank down
exhausted, and began to drag himself about and moan like a convalescent.
The fear of having to earn his bread made him positively ill. When
Silvere came to see him, he complained, with tears, of his children's
ingratitude. Had he not always been a good father to them? Jean and
Gervaise were monsters, who had made him an evil return for all he had
done for them. Now they abandoned him because he was old, and they could
not get anything more out of him!

This is an atom: 
"But uncle," said Silvere, "you are not yet too old to work!"

This is an atom: 
Macquart, coughing and stooping, shook his head mournfully, as if to say
that he could not bear the least fatigue for any length of time. Just
as his nephew was about to withdraw, he borrowed ten francs of him. Then
for a month he lived by taking his children's old clothes, one by one,
to a second-hand dealer's, and in the same way, little by little, he
sold all the small articles in the house. Soon nothing remained but
a table, a chair, his bed, and the clothes on his back. He ended by
exchanging the walnut-wood bedstead for a plain strap one. When he had
exhausted all his resources, he cried with rage; and, with the fierce
pallor of a man who is resigned to suicide, he went to look for the
bundle of osier that he had forgotten in some corner for a quarter of
a century past. As he took it up he seemed to be lifting a mountain.
However, he again began to plait baskets and hampers, while denouncing
the human race for their neglect.

This is an atom: 
It was particularly at this time that he talked of dividing and sharing
the riches of the wealthy. He showed himself terrible. His speeches
kept up a constant conflagration in the tavern, where his furious looks
secured him unlimited credit. Moreover, he only worked when he had been
unable to get a five-franc piece out of Silvere or a comrade. He was
no longer "Monsieur" Macquart, the clean-shaven workman, who wore his
Sunday clothes every day and played the gentleman; he again became the
big slovenly devil who had once speculated on his rags. Felicite did not
dare to go to market now that he was so often coming there to sell
his baskets. He once had a violent quarrel with her there. His hatred
against the Rougons grew with his wretchedness. He swore, with horrible
threats, that he would wreak justice himself, since the rich were
leagued together to compel him to toil.

This is an atom: 
In this state of mind, he welcomed the Coup d'Etat with the ardent,
obstreperous delight of a hound scenting the quarry. As the few honest
Liberals in the town had failed to arrive at an understanding amongst
themselves, and therefore kept apart, he became naturally one of
the most prominent agents of the insurrection. The working classes,
notwithstanding the unfavourable opinion which they at last entertained
of this lazy fellow, would, when the time arrived, have to accept him
as a rallying flag. On the first few days, however, the town remained
quiet, and Macquart thought that his plans were frustrated. It was not
until the news arrived of the rising of the rural districts that he
recovered hope. For his own part he would not have left Plassans for all
the world; accordingly he invented some pretext for not following those
workmen who, on the Sunday morning, set off to join the insurrectionary
band of La Palud and Saint-Martin-de-Vaulx.

This is an atom: 
On the evening of the same day he was sitting in some disreputable
tavern of the old quarter with a few friends, when a comrade came to
inform him that the insurgents were only a few miles from Plassans. This
news had just been brought by an express, who had succeeded in making
his way into the town, and had been charged to get the gates opened
for the column. There was an outburst of triumph. Macquart, especially,
appeared to be delirious with enthusiasm. The unforeseen arrival of the
insurgents seemed to him a delicate attention of Providence for his own
particular benefit. His hands trembled at the idea that he would soon
hold the Rougons by the throat.

This is an atom: 
He hastily quitted the tavern with his friends. All the Republicans who
had not yet left the town were soon assembled on the Cours Sauvaire. It
was this band that Rougon had perceived as he was hastening to conceal
himself in his mother's house. When the band had reached the top of
the Rue de la Banne, Macquart, who had stationed himself at the rear,
detained four of his companions, big fellows who were not over-burdened
with brains and whom he swayed by his tavern bluster. He easily
persuaded them that the enemies of the Republic must be arrested
immediately if they wished to prevent the greatest calamities. The truth
was that he feared Pierre might escape him in the midst of the confusion
which the entry of the insurgents would produce. However, the four big
fellows followed him with exemplary docility, and knocked violently
at the door of the Rougons' abode. In this critical situation Felicite
displayed admirable courage. She went down and opened the street door
herself.

This is an atom: 
"We want to go upstairs into your rooms," Macquart said to her brutally.

This is an atom: 
"Very well, gentlemen, walk up," she replied with ironical politeness,
pretending that she did not recognise her brother-in-law.

This is an atom: 
Once upstairs, Macquart ordered her to fetch her husband.

This is an atom: 
"My husband is not here," she said with perfect calmness; "he is
travelling on business. He took the diligence for Marseilles at six
o'clock this evening."

This is an atom: 
Antoine at this declaration, which Felicite uttered in a clear voice,
made a gesture of rage. He rushed through the drawing-room, and then
into the bedroom, turned the bed up, looked behind the curtains and
under the furniture. The four big fellows assisted him. They searched
the place for a quarter of an hour. Felicite meantime quietly seated
herself on the drawing-room sofa, and began to fasten the strings of her
petticoats, like a person who has been surprised in her sleep and has
not had time to dress properly.

This is an atom: 
"It's true then, he's run away, the coward!" Macquart muttered on
returning to the drawing-room.

This is an atom: 
Nevertheless, he continued to look about him with a suspicious air. He
felt a presentiment that Pierre could not have given up the game at the
decisive moment. At last he approached Felicite, who was yawning: "Show
us the place where your husband is hidden," he said to her, "and I
promise no harm shall be done to him."

This is an atom: 
"I have told you the truth," she replied impatiently. "I can't deliver
my husband to you, as he's not here. You have searched everywhere,
haven't you? Then leave me alone now."

This is an atom: 
Macquart, exasperated by her composure, was just going to strike her,
when a rumbling noise arose from the street. It was the column of
insurgents entering the Rue de la Banne.

This is an atom: 
He then had to leave the yellow drawing-room, after shaking his fist
at his sister-in-law, calling her an old jade, and threatening that he
would soon return. At the foot of the staircase, he took one of the men
who accompanied him, a navvy named Cassoute, the most wooden-headed of
the four, and ordered him to sit on the first step, and remain there.

This is an atom: 
"You must come and inform me," he said to him, "if you see the scoundrel
from upstairs return."

This is an atom: 
The man sat down heavily. When Macquart reached the pavement, he
raised his eyes and observed Felicite leaning out of the window of the
yellow-drawing room, watching the march past of the insurgents, as if
it was nothing but a regiment passing through the town to the strains
of its band. This last sign of perfect composure irritated him to such a
degree that he was almost tempted to go up again and throw the old woman
into the street. However, he followed the column, muttering in a hoarse
voice: "Yes, yes, look at us passing. We'll see whether you will station
yourself at your balcony to-morrow."

This is an atom: 
It was nearly eleven o'clock at night when the insurgents entered the
town by the Porte de Rome. The workmen remaining in Plassans had opened
the gate for them, in spite of the wailings of the keeper, from whom
they could only wrest the keys by force. This man, very jealous of his
office, stood dumbfoundered in the presence of the surging crowd. To
think of it! he, who never allowed more than one person to pass in at
a time, and then only after a prolonged examination of his face! And
he murmured that he was dishonoured. The men of Plassans were still
marching at the head of the column by way of guiding the others; Miette,
who was in the front rank, with Silvere on her left, held up her banner
more proudly than ever now that she could divine behind the closed
blinds the scared looks of well-to-do bourgeois startled out of their
sleep. The insurgents passed along the Rue de Rome and the Rue de la
Banne slowly and warily; at every crossway, although they well knew the
quiet disposition of the inhabitants, they feared they might be received
with bullets. The town seemed lifeless, however; there was scarcely
a stifled exclamation to be heard at the windows. Only five or six
shutters opened. Some old householder then appeared in his night-shirt,
candle in hand, and leant out to obtain a better view; but as soon as he
distinguished the tall red girl who appeared to be drawing that crowd of
black demons behind her, he hastily closed his window again, terrified
by such a diabolical apparition.

This is an atom: 
The silence of the slumbering town reassured the insurgents, who
ventured to make their way through the lanes of the old quarter, and
thus reached the market-place and the Place de l'Hotel-de-Ville, which
was connected by a short but broad street. These open spaces, planted
with slender trees, were brilliantly illumined by the moon. Against the
clear sky the recently restored town-hall appeared like a large patch of
crude whiteness, the fine black lines of the wrought-iron arabesques of
the first-floor balcony showing in bold relief. Several persons could
be plainly distinguished standing on this balcony, the mayor, Commander
Sicardot, three or four municipal councillors, and other functionaries.
The doors below were closed. The three thousand Republicans, who covered
both open spaces, halted with upraised heads, ready to force the doors
with a single push.

This is an atom: 
The arrival of the insurrectionary column at such an hour took the
authorities by surprise. Before repairing to the mayor's, Commander
Sicardot had taken time to don his uniform. He then had to run and rouse
the mayor. When the keeper of the Porte de Rome, who had been left free
by the insurgents, came to announce that the villains were already in
the town, the commander had so far only managed to assemble a score of
the national guards. The gendarmes, though their barracks were close by,
could not even be warned. It was necessary to shut the town-hall
doors in all haste, in order to deliberate. Five minutes later a low
continuous rumbling announced the approach of the column.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur Garconnet, out of hatred to the Republic, would have greatly
liked to offer resistance. But he was of a prudent nature, and
comprehended the futility of a struggle on finding only a few pale men,
who were scarcely awake, around him. So the deliberations did not last
long. Sicardot alone was obstinate; he wanted to fight, asserting that
twenty men would suffice to bring these three thousand villains to
reason. At this Monsieur Garconnet shrugged his shoulders, and declared
that the only step to take was to make an honourable capitulation. As
the uproar of the mob increased, he went out on the balcony, followed
by all the persons present. Silence was gradually obtained. Below, among
the black, quivering mass of insurgents, the guns and scythes glittered
in the moonlight.

This is an atom: 
"Who are you, and what do you want?" cried the mayor in a loud voice.

This is an atom: 
Thereupon a man in a greatcoat, a landowner of La Palud, stepped
forward.

This is an atom: 
"Open the doors," he said, without replying to Monsieur Garconnet's
question. "Avoid a fratricidal conflict."

This is an atom: 
"I call upon you to withdraw," the mayor continued. "I protest in the
name of the law."

This is an atom: 
These words provoked deafening shouts from the crowd. When the tumult
had somewhat abated, vehement calls ascended to the balcony. Voices
shouted: "It is in the name of the law that we have come here!"

This is an atom: 
"Your duty as a functionary is to secure respect for the fundamental
law of the land, the constitution, which has just been outrageously
violated."

This is an atom: 
"Long live the constitution! Long live the Republic!"

This is an atom: 
Then as Monsieur Garconnet endeavoured to make himself heard, and
continued to invoke his official dignity, the land-owner of La
Palud, who was standing under the balcony, interrupted him with
great vehemence: "You are now nothing but the functionary of a fallen
functionary; we have come to dismiss you from your office."

This is an atom: 
Hitherto, Commander Sicardot had been ragefully biting his moustache,
and muttering insulting words. The sight of the cudgels and scythes
exasperated him; and he made desperate efforts to restrain himself
from treating these twopenny-halfpenny soldiers, who had not even a
gun apiece, as they deserved. But when he heard a gentleman in a mere
greatcoat speak of deposing a mayor girded with his scarf, he could no
longer contain himself and shouted: "You pack of rascals! If I only had
four men and a corporal, I'd come down and pull your ears for you, and
make you behave yourselves!"

This is an atom: 
Less than this was needed to raise a serious disturbance. A long shout
rose from the mob as it made a rush for the doors. Monsieur Garconnet,
in consternation, hastily quitted the balcony, entreating Sicardot to be
reasonable unless he wished to have them massacred. But in two minutes
the doors gave way, the people invaded the building and disarmed the
national guards. The mayor and the other functionaries present were
arrested. Sicardot, who declined to surrender his sword, had to
be protected from the fury of some insurgents by the chief of the
contingent from Les Tulettes, a man of great self-possession. When the
town-hall was in the hands of the Republicans, they led their prisoners
to a small cafe in the market-place, and there kept them closely
watched.

This is an atom: 
The insurrectionary army would have avoided marching through Plassans
if its leaders had not decided that a little food and a few hours' rest
were absolutely necessary for the men. Instead of pushing forward
direct to the chief town of the department, the column, owing to the
inexcusable weakness and the inexperience of the improvised general who
commanded it, was now diverging to the left, making a detour which was
destined, ultimately, to lead it to destruction. It was bound for the
heights of Sainte-Roure, still about ten leagues distant, and it was
in view of this long march that it had been decided to pass through
Plassans, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour. It was now half-past
eleven.

This is an atom: 
When Monsieur Garconnet learnt that the band was in quest of provisions,
he offered his services to procure them. This functionary formed, under
very difficult circumstances, a proper estimate of the situation. Those
three thousand starving men would have to be satisfied; it would never
do for Plassans, on waking up, to find them still squatting on the
pavements; if they withdrew before daybreak they would simply have
passed through the slumbering town like an evil dream, like one of those
nightmares which depart with the arrival of dawn. And so, although he
remained a prisoner, Monsieur Garconnet, followed by two guards, went
about knocking at the bakers' doors, and had all the provisions that he
could find distributed among the insurgents.

This is an atom: 
Towards one o'clock the three thousand men began to eat, squatting on
the ground, with their weapons between their legs. The market-place
and the neighbourhood of the town-hall were turned into vast open-air
refectories. In spite of the bitter cold, humorous sallies were
exchanged among the swarming multitude, the smallest groups of which
showed forth in the brilliant moonlight. The poor famished fellows
eagerly devoured their portions while breathing on their fingers to warm
them; and, from the depths of adjoining streets, where vague black forms
sat on the white thresholds of the houses, there came sudden bursts
of laughter. At the windows emboldened, inquisitive women, with silk
handkerchiefs tied round their heads, watched the repast of those
terrible insurgents, those blood-suckers who went in turn to the market
pump to drink a little water in the hollows of their hands.

This is an atom: 
While the town-hall was being invaded, the gendarmes' barracks, situated
a few steps away, in the Rue Canquoin, which leads to the market, had
also fallen into the hands of the mob. The gendarmes were surprised in
their beds and disarmed in a few minutes. The impetus of the crowd had
carried Miette and Silvere along in this direction. The girl, who still
clasped her flagstaff to her breast, was pushed against the wall of
the barracks, while the young man, carried away by the human wave,
penetrated into the interior, and helped his comrades to wrest from the
gendarmes the carbines which they had hastily caught up. Silvere, waxing
ferocious, intoxicated by the onslaught, attacked a big devil of a
gendarme named Rengade, with whom for a few moments he struggled. At
last, by a sudden jerk, he succeeded in wresting his carbine from him.
But the barrel struck Rengade a violent blow in the face, which put his
right eye out. Blood flowed, and, some of it splashing Silvere's hands,
quickly brought him to his senses. He looked at his hands, dropped the
carbine, and ran out, in a state of frenzy, shaking his fingers.

This is an atom: 
"You are wounded!" cried Miette.

This is an atom: 
"No, no," he replied in a stifled voice, "I've just killed a gendarme."

This is an atom: 
"Is he really dead?" asked Miette.

This is an atom: 
"I don't know," replied Silvere, "his face was all covered with blood.
Come quickly."

This is an atom: 
Then he hurried the girl away. On reaching the market, he made her sit
down on a stone bench, and told her to wait there for him. He was still
looking at his hands, muttering something at the same time. Miette at
last understood from his disquieted words that he wished to go and kiss
his grandmother before leaving.

This is an atom: 
"Well, go," she said; "don't trouble yourself about me. Wash your
hands."

This is an atom: 
But he went quickly away, keeping his fingers apart, without thinking
of washing them at the pump which he passed. Since he had felt Rengade's
warm blood on his skin, he had been possessed by one idea, that of
running to Aunt Dide's and dipping his hands in the well-trough at the
back of the little yard. There only, he thought, would he be able
to wash off the stain of that blood. Moreover, all his calm, gentle
childhood seemed to return to him; he felt an irresistible longing
to take refuge in his grandmother's skirts, if only for a minute.
He arrived quite out of breath. Aunt Dide had not gone to bed, a
circumstance which at any other time would have greatly surprised
Silvere. But on entering he did not even see his uncle Rougon, who was
seated in a corner on the old chest. He did not wait for the poor old
woman's questions. "Grandmother," he said quickly, "you must forgive
me; I'm going to leave with the others. You see I've got blood on me. I
believe I've killed a gendarme."

This is an atom: 
"You've killed a gendarme?" Aunt Dide repeated in a strange voice.

This is an atom: 
Her eyes gleamed brightly as she fixed them on the red stains. And
suddenly she turned towards the chimney-piece. "You've taken the gun,"
she said; "where's the gun?"

This is an atom: 
Silvere, who had left the weapon with Miette, swore to her that it was
quite safe. And for the very first time, Adelaide made an allusion to
the smuggler Macquart in her grandson's presence.

This is an atom: 
"You'll bring the gun back? You promise me!" she said with singular
energy. "It's all I have left of him. You've killed a gendarme; ah, it
was the gendarmes who killed him!"

This is an atom: 
She continued gazing fixedly at Silvere with an air of cruel
satisfaction, and apparently without thought of detaining him. She never
asked him for any explanation, nor wept like those good grandmothers who
always imagine, at sight of the least scratch, that their grandchildren
are dying. All her nature was concentrated in one unique thought, to
which she at last gave expression with ardent curiosity: "Did you kill
the gendarme with the gun?"

This is an atom: 
Either Silvere did not quite catch what she said, or else he
misunderstood her.

This is an atom: 
"Yes!" he replied. "I'm going to wash my hands."

This is an atom: 
It was only on returning from the well that he perceived his uncle.
Pierre had turned pale on hearing the young man's words. Felicite was
indeed right; his family took a pleasure in compromising him. One of
his nephews had now killed a gendarme! He would never get the post
of receiver of taxes, if he did not prevent this foolish madman from
rejoining the insurgents. So he planted himself in front of the door,
determined to prevent Silvere from going out.

This is an atom: 
"Listen," he said to the young fellow, who was greatly surprised to find
him there. "I am the head of the family, and I forbid you to leave this
house. You're risking both your honour and ours. To-morrow I will try to
get you across the frontier."

This is an atom: 
But Silvere shrugged his shoulders. "Let me pass," he calmly replied.
"I'm not a police-spy; I shall not reveal your hiding-place, never
fear." And as Rougon continued to speak of the family dignity and the
authority with which his seniority invested him: "Do I belong to your
family?" the young man continued. "You have always disowned me. To-day,
fear has driven you here, because you feel that the day of judgment has
arrived. Come, make way! I don't hide myself; I have a duty to perform."

This is an atom: 
Rougon did not stir. But Aunt Dide, who had listened with a sort of
delight to Silvere's vehement language, laid her withered hand on her
son's arm. "Get out of the way, Pierre," she said; "the lad must go."

This is an atom: 
The young man gave his uncle a slight shove, and dashed outside. Then
Rougon, having carefully shut the door again, said to his mother in an
angry, threatening tone: "If any mischief happens to him it will be your
fault. You're an old mad-woman; you don't know what you've just done."

This is an atom: 
Adelaide, however, did not appear to hear him. She went and threw some
vine-branches on the fire, which was going out, and murmured with a
vague smile: "I'm used to it. He would remain away for months together,
and then come back to me in much better health."

This is an atom: 
She was no doubt speaking of Macquart.

This is an atom: 
In the meantime, Silvere hastily regained the market-place. As he
approached the spot where he had left Miette, he heard a loud uproar of
voices and saw a crowd which made him quicken his steps. A cruel scene
had just occurred. Some inquisitive people were walking among the
insurgents, while the latter quietly partook of their meal. Amongst
these onlookers was Justin Rebufat, the son of the farmer of the
Jas-Meiffren, a youth of twenty years old, a sickly, squint-eyed
creature, who harboured implacable hatred against his cousin Miette.
At home he grudged her the bread she ate, and treated her like a beggar
picked up from the gutter out of charity. It is probable that the young
girl had rejected his advances. Lank and pale, with ill-proportioned
limbs and face all awry, he revenged himself upon her for his own
ugliness, and the contempt which the handsome, vigorous girl must have
evinced for him. He ardently longed to induce his father to send her
about her business; and for this reason he was always spying upon her.
For some time past, he had become aware of the meetings with Silvere,
and had only awaited a decisive opportunity to reveal everything to his
father, Rebufat.

This is an atom: 
On the evening in question, having seen her leave home at about eight
o'clock, Justin's hatred had overpowered him, and he had been unable
to keep silent any longer. Rebufat, on hearing his story, fell into a
terrible rage, and declared that he would kick the gadabout out of his
house should she have the audacity to return. Justin then went to
bed, relishing beforehand the fine scene which would take place on the
morrow. Then, however, a burning desire came upon him for some immediate
foretaste of his revenge. So he dressed himself again and went out.
Perhaps he might meet Miette. In that case he was resolved to treat
her insolently. This is how he came to witness the arrival of the
insurgents, whom he followed to the town-hall with a vague presentiment
that he would find the lovers there. And, indeed, he at last caught
sight of his cousin on the seat where she was waiting for Silvere.
Seeing her wrapped in her long pelisse, with the red flag at her side,
resting against a market pillar, he began to sneer and deride her in
foul language. The girl, thunderstruck at seeing him, was unable
to speak. She wept beneath his abuse, and whist she was overcome by
sobbing, bowing her head and hiding her face, Justin called her a
convict's daughter, and shouted that old Rebufat would give her a good
thrashing should she ever dare to return to Jas-Meiffren.

This is an atom: 
For a quarter of an hour he thus kept her smarting and trembling. Some
people had gathered round, and grinned stupidly at the painful scene.
At last a few insurgents interfered, and threatened the young man with
exemplary chastisement if he did not leave Miette alone. But Justin,
although he retreated, declared that he was not afraid of them. It was
just at this moment that Silvere came up. Young Rebufat, on catching
sight of him, made a sudden bound, as if to take flight; for he was
afraid of him, knowing that he was much stronger than himself. He could
not, however, resist the temptation to cast a parting insult on the girl
in her lover's presence.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! I knew very well," he cried, "that the wheelwright could not be
far off! You left us to run after that crack-brained fellow, eh? You
wretched girl! When's the baptism to be?"

This is an atom: 
Then he retreated a few steps further on seeing Silvere clench his
fists.

This is an atom: 
"And mind," he continued, with a vile sneer, "don't come to our house
again. My father will kick you out if you do! Do you hear?"

This is an atom: 
But he ran away howling, with bruised visage. For Silvere had bounded
upon him and dealt him a blow full in the face. The young man did
not pursue him. When he returned to Miette he found her standing up,
feverishly wiping her tears away with the palm of her hand. And as
he gazed at her tenderly, in order to console her, she made a sudden
energetic gesture. "No," she said, "I'm not going to cry any more,
you'll see. I'm very glad of it. I don't feel any regret now for having
left home. I am free."

This is an atom: 
She took up the flag and led Silvere back into the midst of the
insurgents. It was now nearly two o'clock in the morning. The cold was
becoming so intense that the Republicans had risen to their feet and
were marching to and fro in order to warm themselves while they finished
their bread. At last their leaders gave orders for departure. The column
formed again. The prisoners were placed in the middle of it. Besides
Monsieur Garconnet and Commander Sicardot, the insurgents had
arrested Monsieur Peirotte, the receiver of taxes, and several other
functionaries, all of whom they led away.

This is an atom: 
At this moment Aristide was observed walking about among the groups.
In presence of this formidable rising, the dear fellow had thought it
imprudent not to remain on friendly terms with the Republicans; but as,
on the other hand, he did not desire to compromise himself too much,
he had come to bid them farewell with his arm in a sling, complaining
bitterly of the accursed injury which prevented him from carrying
a weapon. As he walked through the crowd he came across his brother
Pascal, provided with a case of surgical instruments and a little
portable medicine chest. The doctor informed him, in his quiet, way,
that he intended to follow the insurgents. At this Aristide inwardly
pronounced him a great fool. At last he himself slunk away, fearing lest
the others should entrust the care of the town to him, a post which he
deemed exceptionally perilous.

This is an atom: 
The insurgents could not think of keeping Plassans in their power. The
town was animated by so reactionary a spirit that it seemed impossible
even to establish a democratic municipal commission there, as had
already been done in other places. So they would simply have gone off
without taking any further steps if Macquart, prompted and emboldened by
his own private animosities, had not offered to hold Plassans in awe, on
condition that they left him twenty determined men. These men were given
him, and at their head he marched off triumphantly to take possession
of the town-hall. Meantime the column of insurgents was wending its
way along the Cours Sauvaire, and making its exit by the Grand'-Porte,
leaving the streets, which it had traversed like a tempest, silent
and deserted in its rear. The high road, whitened by the moonshine,
stretched far into the distance. Miette had refused the support of
Silvere's arm; she marched on bravely, steady and upright, holding the
red flag aloft with both hands, without complaining of the cold which
was turning her fingers blue.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER V

This is an atom: 
The high roads stretched far way, white with moonlight.

This is an atom: 
The insurrectionary army was continuing its heroic march through the
cold, clear country. It was like a mighty wave of enthusiasm. The thrill
of patriotism, which transported Miette and Silvere, big children that
they were, eager for love and liberty, sped, with generous fervour,
athwart the sordid intrigues of the Macquarts and the Rougons. At
intervals the trumpet-voice of the people rose and drowned the prattle
of the yellow drawing-room and the hateful discourses of uncle Antoine.
And vulgar, ignoble farce was turned into a great historical drama.

This is an atom: 
On quitting Plassans, the insurgents had taken the road to Orcheres.
They expected to reach that town at about ten o'clock in the morning.
The road skirts the course of the Viorne, following at some height the
windings of the hillocks, below which the torrent flows. On the left,
the plain spreads out like an immense green carpet, dotted here and
there with grey villages. On the right, the chain of the Garrigues rears
its desolate peaks, its plateaux of stones, its huge rusty boulders
that look as though they had been reddened by the sun. The high road,
embanked along the riverside, passes on amidst enormous rocks, between
which glimpses of the valley are caught at every step. Nothing could be
wilder or more strikingly grand than this road out of the hillside. At
night time, especially, it inspires one with a feeling of deep awe. The
insurgents advanced under the pale light, along what seemed the chief
street of some ruined town, bordered on either side with fragments
of temples. The moon turned each rock into a broken column, crumbling
capital, or stretch of wall pierced with mysterious arches. On high
slumbered the mass of the Garrigues, suffused with a milky tinge, and
resembling some immense Cyclopean city whose towers, obelisks, houses
and high terraces hid one half of the heavens; and in the depths below,
on the side of the plain, was a spreading ocean of diffused light,
vague and limitless, over which floated masses of luminous haze. The
insurrectionary force might well have thought they were following some
gigantic causeway, making their rounds along some military road built on
the shore of a phosphorescent sea, and circling some unknown Babel.

This is an atom: 
On the night in question, the Viorne roared hoarsely at the foot of
the rocks bordering the route. Amidst the continuous rumbling of the
torrent, the insurgents could distinguish the sharp, wailing notes of
the tocsin. The villages scattered about the plain, on the other side of
the river, were rising, sounding alarm-bells, and lighting signal fires.
Till daybreak the marching column, which the persistent tolling of
a mournful knell seemed to pursue in the darkness, thus beheld the
insurrection spreading along the valley, like a train of powder. The
fires showed in the darkness like stains of blood; echoes of distant
songs were wafted to them; the whole vague distance, blurred by the
whitish vapours of the moon, stirred confusedly, and suddenly broke into
a spasm of anger. For leagues and leagues the scene remained the same.

This is an atom: 
These men, marching on under the blind impetus of the fever with which
the events in Paris had inspired Republican hearts, became elated at
seeing that long stretch of country quivering with revolt. Intoxicated
with enthusiastic belief in the general insurrection of which they
dreamed, they fancied that France was following them; on the other side
of the Viorne, in that vast ocean of diffused light, they imagined there
were endless files of men rushing like themselves to the defence of the
Republic. All simplicity and delusion, as multitudes so often are, they
imagined, in their uncultured minds, that victory was easy and certain.
They would have seized and shot as a traitor any one who had then
asserted that they were the only ones who had the courage of their
duty, and that the rest of the country, overwhelmed with fright, was
pusillanimously allowing itself to be garrotted.

This is an atom: 
They derived fresh courage, too, from the welcome accorded to them
by the few localities that lay along their route on the slopes of the
Garrigues. The inhabitants rose _en masse_ immediately the little army
drew near; women ran to meet them, wishing them a speedy victory, while
men, half clad, seized the first weapons they could find and rushed to
join their ranks. There was a fresh ovation at every village, shouts of
welcome and farewell many times reiterated.

This is an atom: 
Towards daybreak the moon disappeared behind the Garrigues and the
insurgents continued their rapid march amidst the dense darkness of
a winter night. They were now unable to distinguish the valley or the
hills; they heard only the hoarse plaints of the bells, sounding through
the deep obscurity like invisible drums, hidden they knew not where, but
ever goading them on with despairing calls.

This is an atom: 
Miette and Silvere went on, all eagerness like the others. Towards
daybreak, the girl suffered greatly from fatigue; she could only walk
with short hurried steps, and was unable to keep up with the long
strides of the men who surrounded her. Nevertheless she courageously
strove to suppress all complaints; it would have cost her too much
to confess that she was not as strong as a boy. During the first few
leagues of the march Silvere gave her his arm; then, seeing that the
standard was gradually slipping from her benumbed hands, he tried to
take it in order to relieve her; but she grew angry, and would only
allow him to hold it with one hand while she continued to carry it on
her shoulder. She thus maintained her heroic demeanour with childish
stubbornness, smiling at the young man each time he gave her a glance of
loving anxiety. At last, when the moon hid itself, she gave way in the
sheltering darkness. Silvere felt her leaning more heavily on his arm.
He now had to carry the flag, and hold her round the waist to prevent
her from stumbling. Nevertheless she still made no complaint.

This is an atom: 
"Are you very tired, poor Miette?" Silvere asked her.

This is an atom: 
"Yea, a little tired," she replied in a weary tone.

This is an atom: 
"Would you like to rest a bit?"

This is an atom: 
She made no reply; but he realised that she was staggering. He thereupon
handed the flag to one of the other insurgents and quitted the ranks,
almost carrying the girl in his arms. She struggled a little, she felt
so distressed at appearing such a child. But he calmed her, telling her
that he knew of a cross-road which shortened the distance by one half.
They would be able to take a good hour's rest and reach Orcheres at the
same time as the others.

This is an atom: 
It was then six o'clock. There must have been a slight mist rising from
the Viorne, for the darkness seemed to be growing denser. The young
people groped their way along the slope of the Garrigues, till they came
to a rock on which they sat down. Around them lay an abyss of darkness.
They were stranded, as it were, on some reef above a dense void. And
athwart that void, when the dull tramp of the little army had died away,
they only heard two bells, the one clear toned and ringing doubtless at
their feet, in some village across the road; and the other far-off and
faint, responding, as it were, with distant sobs to the feverish plaints
of the first. One might have thought that these bells were recounting to
each other, through the empty waste, the sinister story of a perishing
world.

This is an atom: 
Miette and Silvere, warmed by their quick march, did not at first feel
the cold. They remained silent, listening in great dejection to the
sounds of the tocsin, which made the darkness quiver. They could not
even see one another. Miette felt frightened, and, seeking for Silvere's
hand, clasped it in her own. After the feverish enthusiasm which for
several hours had carried them along with the others, this sudden halt
and the solitude in which they found themselves side by side left them
exhausted and bewildered as though they had suddenly awakened from a
strange dream. They felt as if a wave had cast them beside the highway,
then ebbed back and left them stranded. Irresistible reaction plunged
them into listless stupor; they forgot their enthusiasm; they thought no
more of the men whom they had to rejoin; they surrendered themselves to
the melancholy sweetness of finding themselves alone, hand in hand, in
the midst of the wild darkness.

This is an atom: 
"You are not angry with me?" the girl at length inquired. "I could
easily walk the whole night with you; but they were running too quickly,
I could hardly breathe."

This is an atom: 
"Why should I be angry with you?" the young man said.

This is an atom: 
"I don't know. I was afraid you might not love me any longer. I wish I
could have taken long strides like you, and have walked along without
stopping. You will think I am a child."

This is an atom: 
Silvere smiled, and Miette, though the darkness prevented her from
seeing him, guessed that he was doing so. Then she continued with
determination: "You must not always treat me like a sister. I want to be
your wife some day."

This is an atom: 
Forthwith she clasped Silvere to her bosom, and, still with her arms
about him, murmured: "We shall grow so cold; come close to me that we
may be warm."

This is an atom: 
Then they lapsed into silence. Until that troublous hour, they had loved
one another with the affection of brother and sister. In their ignorance
they still mistook their feelings for tender friendship, although
beneath their guileless love their ardent blood surged more wildly
day by day. Given age and experience, a violent passion of southern
intensity would at last spring from this idyll. Every girl who hangs on
a youth's neck is already a woman, a woman unconsciously, whom a caress
may awaken to conscious womanhood. When lovers kiss on the cheeks, it is
because they are searching, feeling for one another's lips. Lovers are
made by a kiss. It was on that dark and cold December night, amid the
bitter wailing of the tocsin, that Miette and Silvere exchanged one of
those kisses that bring all the heart's blood to the lips.

This is an atom: 
They remained silent, close to one another. A gentle glow soon
penetrated them, languor overcame them, and steeped them in feverish
drowsiness. They were quite warm at last, and lights seemed to flit
before their closed eyelids, while a buzzing mounted to their brains.
This state of painful ecstasy, which lasted some minutes, seemed
endless to them. Then, in a kind of dream, their lips met. The kiss they
exchanged was long and greedy. It seemed to them as if they had never
kissed before. Yet their embrace was fraught with suffering and they
released one another. And the chilliness of the night having cooled
their fever, they remained in great confusion at some distance one from
the other.

This is an atom: 
Meantime the bells were keeping up their sinister converse in the
dark abyss which surrounded the young people. Miette, trembling and
frightened, did not dare to draw near to Silvere again. She did not even
know if he were still there, for she could no longer hear him move. The
stinging sweetness of their kiss still clung to their lips, to which
passionate phrases surged, and they longed to kiss once more. But shame
restrained them from the expression of any such desire. They felt that
they would rather never taste that bliss again than speak of it aloud.
If their blood had not been lashed by their rapid march, if the darkness
had not offered complicity, they would, for a long time yet, have
continued kissing each other on the cheeks like old playfellows.
Feelings of modesty were coming to Miette. She remembered Justin's
coarseness. A few hours previously she had listened, without a blush,
to that fellow who called her a shameless girl. She had wept without
understanding his meaning, she had wept simply because she guessed that
what he spoke of must be base. Now that she was becoming a woman, she
wondered in a last innocent transport whether that kiss, whose burning
smart she could still feel, would not perhaps suffice to cover her with
the shame to which her cousin had referred. Thereupon she was seized
with remorse, and burst into sobs.

This is an atom: 
"What is the matter; why are you crying?" asked Silvere in an anxious
voice.

This is an atom: 
"Oh, leave me," she faltered, "I do not know."

This is an atom: 
Then in spite of herself, as it were, she continued amidst her tears:
"Ah! what an unfortunate creature I am! When I was ten years old
people used to throw stones at me. To-day I am treated as the vilest of
creatures. Justin did right to despise me before everybody. We have been
doing wrong, Silvere."

This is an atom: 
The young man, quite dismayed, clasped her in his arms again, trying
to console her. "I love you," he whispered, "I am your brother. Why
say that we have been doing wrong? We kissed each other because we were
cold. You know very well that we used to kiss each other every evening
before separating."

This is an atom: 
"Oh! not as we did just now," she whispered. "It must be wrong, for a
strange feeling came over me. The men will laugh at me now as I pass,
and they will be right in doing so. I shall not be able to defend
myself."

This is an atom: 
The young fellow remained silent, unable to find a word to calm the
agitation of this big child, trembling at her first kiss of love. He
clasped her gently, imagining that he might calm her by his embrace.
She struggled, however, and continued: "If you like, we will go away; we
will leave the province. I can never return to Plassans; my uncle would
beat me; all the townspeople would point their fingers at me--" And
then, as if seized with sudden irritation, she added: "But no! I am
cursed! I forbid you to leave aunt Dide to follow me. You must leave me
on the highway."

This is an atom: 
"Miette, Miette!" Silvere implored; "don't talk like that."

This is an atom: 
"Yes. I want to please you. Be reasonable. They have turned me out like
a vagabond. If I went back with you, you would always be fighting for my
sake, and I don't want that."

This is an atom: 
At this the young man again pressed a kiss upon her lips, murmuring:
"You shall be my wife, and nobody will then dare to hurt you."

This is an atom: 
"Oh! please, I entreat you!" she said, with a stifled cry; "don't kiss
me so. You hurt me."

This is an atom: 
Then, after a short silence: "You know quite well that I cannot be your
wife now. We are too young. You would have to wait for me, and meanwhile
I should die of shame. You are wrong in protesting; you will be forced
to leave me in some corner."

This is an atom: 
At this Silvere, his fortitude exhausted, began to cry. A man's sobs
are fraught with distressing hoarseness. Miette, quite frightened as
she felt the poor fellow shaking in her arms, kissed him on the face,
forgetting she was burning her lips. But it was all her fault. She was
a little simpleton to have let a kiss upset her so completely. She
now clasped her lover to her bosom as if to beg forgiveness for having
pained him. These weeping children, so anxiously clasping one another,
made the dark night yet more woeful than before. In the distance, the
bells continued to complain unceasingly in panting accents.

This is an atom: 
"It is better to die," repeated Silvere, amidst his sobs; "it is better
to die."

This is an atom: 
"Don't cry; forgive me," stammered Miette. "I will be brave; I will do
all you wish."

This is an atom: 
When the young man had dried his tears: "You are right," he said; "we
cannot return to Plassans. But the time for cowardice has not yet come.
If we come out of the struggle triumphant, I will go for aunt Dide, and
we will take her ever so far away with us. If we are beaten----"

This is an atom: 
He stopped.

This is an atom: 
"If we are beaten?" repeated Miette, softly.

This is an atom: 
"Then be it as God wills!" continued Silvere, in a softer voice. "I most
likely shall not be there. You will comfort the poor woman. That would
be better."

This is an atom: 
"Ah! as you said just now," the young girl murmured, "it would be better
to die."

This is an atom: 
At this longing for death they tightened their embrace. Miette relied
upon dying with Silvere; he had only spoken of himself, but she felt
that he would gladly take her with him into the earth. They would there
be able to love each other more freely than under the sun. Aunt
Dide would die likewise and join them. It was, so to say, a rapid
presentiment, a desire for some strange voluptuousness, to which
Heaven, by the mournful accents of the tocsin, was promising early
gratification. To die! To die! The bells repeated these words with
increasing passion, and the lovers yielded to the calls of the darkness;
they fancied they experienced a foretaste of the last sleep, in the
drowsiness into which they again sank, whilst their lips met once more.

This is an atom: 
Miette no longer turned away. It was she, now, who pressed her lips to
Silvere's, who sought with mute ardour for the delight whose stinging
smart she had not at first been able to endure. The thought of
approaching death had excited her; she no longer felt herself blushing,
but hung upon her love, while he in faltering voice repeated: "I love
you! I love you!"

This is an atom: 
But at this Miette shook her head, as if to say it was not true. With
her free and ardent nature she had a secret instinct of the meaning and
purposes of life, and though she was right willing to die she would fain
have known life first. At last, growing calmer, she gently rested her
head on the young man's shoulder, without uttering a word. Silvere
kissed her again. She tasted those kisses slowly, seeking their meaning,
their hidden sweetness. As she felt them course through her veins,
she interrogated them, asking if they were all love, all passion. But
languor at last overcame her, and she fell into gentle slumber. Silvere
had enveloped her in her pelisse, drawing the skirt around himself at
the same time. They no longer felt cold. The young man rejoiced to find,
from the regularity of her breathing, that the girl was now asleep;
this repose would enable them to proceed on their way with spirit. He
resolved to let her slumber for an hour. The sky was still black, and
the approach of day was but faintly indicated by a whitish line in the
east. Behind the lovers there must have been a pine wood whose musical
awakening it was that the young man heard amidst the morning breezes.
And meantime the wailing of the bells grew more sonorous in the
quivering atmosphere, lulling Miette's slumber even as it had
accompanied her passionate fever.

This is an atom: 
Until that troublous night, these young people had lived through one
of those innocent idylls that blossom among the toiling masses, those
outcasts and folks of simple mind amidst whom one may yet occasionally
find amours as primitive as those of the ancient Greek romances.

This is an atom: 
Miette had been scarcely nine years old at the time when her father was
sent to the galleys for shooting a gendarme. The trial of Chantegreil
had remained a memorable case in the province. The poacher boldly
confessed that he had killed the gendarme, but he swore that the latter
had been taking aim at him. "I only anticipated him," he said, "I
defended myself; it was a duel, not a murder." He never desisted from
this line of argument. The presiding Judge of the Assizes could not make
him understand that, although a gendarme has the right to fire upon a
poacher, a poacher has no right to fire upon a gendarme. Chantegreil
escaped the guillotine, owing to his obviously sincere belief in his own
innocence, and his previous good character. The man wept like a child
when his daughter was brought to him prior to his departure for Toulon.
The little thing, who had lost her mother in her infancy, dwelt at this
time with her grandfather at Chavanoz, a village in the passes of the
Seille. When the poacher was no longer there, the old man and the
girl lived upon alms. The inhabitants of Chavanoz, all sportsmen and
poachers, came to the assistance of the poor creatures whom the convict
had left behind him. After a while, however, the old man died of grief,
and Miette, left alone by herself, would have had to beg on the high
roads, if the neighbours had not remembered that she had an aunt at
Plassans. A charitable soul was kind enough to take her to this aunt,
who did not, however, receive her very kindly.

This is an atom: 
Eulalie Chantegreil, the spouse of _meger_ Rebufat, was a big, dark,
stubborn creature, who ruled the home. She led her husband by the noise,
said the people of the Faubourg of Plassans. The truth was, Rebufat,
avaricious and eager for work and gain, felt a sort of respect for this
big creature, who combined uncommon vigour with strict sobriety and
economy.

This is an atom: 
Thanks to her, the household thrived. The _meger_ grumbled one evening
when, on returning home from work, he found Miette installed there. But
his wife closed his mouth by saying in her gruff voice: "Bah, the little
thing's strongly built, she'll do for a servant; we'll keep her and save
wages."

This is an atom: 
This calculation pleased Rebufat. He went so far as to feel the little
thing's arms, and declared with satisfaction that she was sturdy for her
age. Miette was then nine years old. From the very next day he made use
of her. The work of the peasant-woman in the South of France is much
lighter than in the North. One seldom sees them employed in digging the
ground, carrying loads, or doing other kinds of men's work. They bind
sheaves, gather olives and mulberry leaves; perhaps their most laborious
work is that of weeding. Miette worked away willingly. Open-air life
was her delight, her health. So long as her aunt lived she was always
smiling. The good woman, in spite of her roughness, at last loved her
as her own child; she forbade her doing the hard work which her husband
sometimes tried to force upon her, saying to the latter:

This is an atom: 
"Ah! you're a clever fellow! You don't understand, you fool, that if you
tire her too much to-day, she won't be able to do anything to-morrow!"

This is an atom: 
This argument was decisive. Rebufat bowed his head, and carried the load
which he had desired to set on the young girl's shoulders.

This is an atom: 
The latter would have lived in perfect happiness under the secret
protection of her aunt Eulalie, but for the teasing of her cousin, who
was then a lad of sixteen, and employed his idle hours in hating and
persecuting her. Justin's happiest moments were those when by means of
some gross falsehood he succeeded in getting her scolded. Whenever he
could tread on her feet, or push her roughly, pretending not to have
seen her, he laughed and felt the delight of those crafty folks who
rejoice at other people's misfortunes. Miette, however, would stare at
him with her large black childish eyes gleaming with anger and silent
scorn, which checked the cowardly youngster's sneers. In reality he was
terribly afraid of his cousin.

This is an atom: 
The young girl was just attaining her eleventh year when her aunt
Eulalie suddenly died. From that day everything changed in the house.
Rebufat gradually come to treat her like a farm-labourer. He overwhelmed
her with all sorts of rough work, and made use of her as a beast of
burden. She never even complained, however, thinking that she had a debt
of gratitude to repay him. In the evening, when she was worn out with
fatigue, she mourned for her aunt, that terrible woman whose latent
kindliness she now realised. However, it was not the hard work that
distressed her, for she delighted in her strength, and took a pride in
her big arms and broad shoulders. [To which may be added, on the
information of our valued correspondent "C.," "that it was about 1824
that Mr. Wyatt, being appointed by George IV. to conduct the
improvements at Windsor Castle, had the absurd ambition of distinguishing
himself from the other architects of his name by changing it to
_Wyattville_. This produced the following epigram in, I think, the _Morning
Chronicle_:--
"'Let GEORGE whose restlessness leaves nothing quiet, Change, if he
will, the good old name of _Wyatt_; But let us hope that their united
skill May not make _Windsor Castle--Wyattsville!_'"]

This is an atom: 
_"Peruse."_--In reply to the question of "H.W." (No. 14. p. 215.),
although from want of minute reference I have been unable to find, in
the original edition, the quotation from Frith's works, I beg leave
to suggest that the word "Peruse" is a misprint, and that the true reading
is "Pervise." To this day the first examination at Oxford, commonly called
the "Little-Go," is "Responsiones in _Parviso_." It must not, however,
be supposed that "Pervise," or "Parvise," is derived from the Latin
"Parvus;" the origin, according to Spelman and succeeding etymologists,
is the French "Le Parvis," a church porch.

This is an atom: 
In London the Parvis was frequented by serjeants at law: see Chaucer,
_Prol. Cant. Tales_. There is a difference of opinion where it was
situated: see Tyrwhitt's _Gloss_. The student in ecclesiastical
history may compare _Leo Allatius de Templis Græcorum_, p. 44.

This is an atom: 
T.J.

This is an atom: 
_Autograph Mottoes of Richard Duke of Gloucester and Harry Duke of
Buckingham_.

This is an atom: 
(No. 9. p. 138.)--There can be no doubt that "Mr. NICOLS" is somewhat
wrong in his interpretation of the Duke of Buckingham's Motto. It
is evident that both mottoes are to be read continuously, and that
"souene" is the third person singular of a verb having "loyaulte" for
its nominative case. It appears to me that the true reading of the word
is "soutienne," and that the meaning of the motto is "My feelings of
loyalty often sustain me in my duty to the King when I am tempted to
join those who bear no good feeling towards him." So that we shall
have in English,
Loyalty binds me} Richard Gloucester.}
Often sustains me} Harry Buckingham.}
ARUN.

This is an atom: 
_Boduc._--Your correspondent "P." (No. 12, p. 185.) seems to consider
the "prevailing opinion," that _Boduc_ or _Boduoc_ on the British
coin must be intended for our magnanimous Queen Boadicea, to be merely
a "pleasing vision," over which he is "_sorry_ to cast a cloud."

This is an atom: 
Yet his own remark, that the name Budic (a mere difference in spelling)
is often found among families of the Welsh in Brittany, and that the name
was once common in England, serves only to confirm the common opinion
that _Boduoc_ on the coins was intended as the name of the British
Queen.

This is an atom: 
Dio expressly writes her name in Greek Boudouica, which approaches nearly
to Budic. In Cornwall we still find Budock, the name of a parish and
of a saint. In Oxford there was a church formerly called from St.
Budoc, long since destroyed. Leland mentions a Mr. Budok, and his manor
place, and S. Budok Church.

This is an atom: 
His opinion was, that "this Budocus was an Irisch man, and cam into
Cornewalle, and ther dwellid." Whether there was a Regulus of Britain
of this name, is not material. I am not prepared to cast a cloud
over it, if it should be found. Our motto should be, "ex fumo
dare lucem," &c.

This is an atom: 
ANTINEPHELEGERETA.

This is an atom: 
Oxford.

This is an atom: 
_Annus Trabeationis_.--I am sure that you will allow me to correct
an oversight in your reply to a query of "G.P.," in No. 7. p. 105. You
have attributed to Du Cange a sentence in the Benedictine addition to
his explanation of the term _Trabeatio_.

This is an atom: 
(_Glossar_. tom. vi. col. 1158.
Venet. 1740.) This word certainly signifies the Incarnation of Christ,
an not his Crucifixion. Besides the occurrence of "trabea carnis indutus,"
at the commencement of a sermon on S. Stephen by S. Fulgentius
Ruspensis, I have just now met with the expressions, "trabea carnis
velatus," and "carnis trabea amicti," in a copy of the _editio princeps_
of the Latin version of Damascen's books in defence of Image-worship,
by Godefridus Tilmannus, fol. 30 b. 39 a, 4to. Paris, 1555.

This is an atom: 
R.G.

This is an atom: 
* * * * *{253}
MISCELLANIES.

This is an atom: 
_Pursuits of Literature._--The lines upon the pursuits of literature,
quoted by you at p. 212., remind me of some others, which I have heard
ascribed to Mr. Grattan, and are as follows:--
"'Tis well, Pursuits of Literature!
But who, and what is the pursuer, A Jesuit cursing Popery:
A railer preaching charity; A reptile, nameless and unknown, Sprung from
the slime of Warburton, Whose mingled learning, pride, and blundering,
Make wise men stare, and set fools wondering."
X.

This is an atom: 
_Doctor Dobbs and his Horse Nobbs_.--I remember having read somewhere
of "Doctor Dobbs and his horse Nobbs," but where I cannot now
recall. I only remember one anecdote. The horse Nobbs was left, one
cold night, outside a cottage, whilst the Doctor was within officiating
as accoucheur (I believe); when he was ready to start, and came out,
he found the horse apparently dead. The Doctor was miles from
home, and, as the horse was dead, and the night dark, in place of
walking home, he, with his host, dragged the horse into the kitchen, and
skinned him, by way of passing the time profitably. But, lo! when the
skinning was finished, the horse gave signs of returning animation. What
was to be done? Doctor Dobbs, fertile in resources, got sheepskins
and sewed them on Nobbs, and completely clothed him therein; and--mirabile
dictu!--the skins became attached to the flesh, Nobbs recovered, and
from thenceforward carried a _woolly_ coat, duly shorn every summer,
to the profit of Doctor Dobbs, and to the wonder and admiration of the
neighbourhood.

This is an atom: 
I have also read somewhere that Coleridge told the story of "Doctor Dobbs
and his horse Nobbs" to Southey at Oxford.

This is an atom: 
J.M.B.

This is an atom: 
_Dr. Dobbs and his Horse Nobbs_.--Although of small moment, it is, perhaps,
worth recording, that a Doctor Daniel Dove, of Doncaster, and his horse
Nobbs, form the subjects of a paper in "The Nonpareil, or the Quintessence
of Wit and Humour," published in 1757, and which, there can be
little doubt, was the source whence Southey adopted, _without alteration_,
the names so well known to all readers of the _Doctor_.

This is an atom: 
JNO. SUDLOW.

This is an atom: 
Manchester.

This is an atom: 
Seeing the communication of "P.C.S.S." (p. 73.), reminds me of a note
taken from our Parish Register:-- 
"1723.

This is an atom: 
Feb. 10. 'Dorothy Dove, gentlewoman, bur.'"

This is an atom: 
I have never seen the name in connection with Doncaster before or since
the above date.

This is an atom: 
J.S.

This is an atom: 
Doncaster, Jan. 15.

This is an atom: 
--SI PROPIUS STES, TE CAPIET MINUS.

This is an atom: 
_(From the Latin of Vincent Bourne.)_
Glide down the Thames by London Bridge, what time St. Saviour's bells
strike out their evening chime; Forth leaps the ompetuous cataract of
sound, Dash'd into noise by countless echoes round.
Pass on--it follows--all the jarring notes Blend in celestial harmony,
that floats Above, below, around: the ravish'd ear Finds all the
fault its own--it was TOO NEAR.

This is an atom: 
RUFUS.

This is an atom: 
_St. Evona's Choice._--To your citation of Ben Jonson's exceptional case
of the Justice Randall as "a lawyer an honest man," in justice add the
name of the learned and elegant author of _Eunomus_; for Mr. Wynne
himself tells the story of St. Evona's choice (Dialogue II. p. 62.
3rd ed. Dublin, 1791), giving his authority in the following note:--
"The story here dressed up is told in substance in a small book published
in 1691, called a _Description of the Netherlands_," p.
58.

This is an atom: 
In strict law, Sir, the profession may in courts of Momus be held bound
by the act of the respectable but unlucky St.

This is an atom: 
Evona; but in equity, let me respectfully claim release, for Evona
was a _churchman_.

This is an atom: 
A TEMPLAR.

This is an atom: 
[We gladly insert our correspondent's "claim to release," but doubt
whether he can establish it; inasmuch as St.

This is an atom: 
Ivo or Evona, canonized on account of his great rectitude and profound
knowledge both of civil and canon law, was both lawyer and churchman,
like the CLERICUS so recently discussed in our columns; and clearly sought
for and obtained his patron saint in his legal character.]

This is an atom: 
_Muffins and Crumpets, &c._--Not being quite satisfied with the etymology
of "muffin," in p. 205., though brought by Urquhart from Phoenicia
and the Pillars of Hercules, I am desirous of seeking additional
illustration.

This is an atom: 
Some fancy that "coffee" was known to Athenæus, and that he saw it
_clearly_ in the "black broth" of the Lacedæmonian youth.

This is an atom: 
In the same agreeable manner we are referred to that instructive
and entertaining writer for the corresponding luxury of "muffins."
_Maphula_, we are told, was one of those kinds of bread named as such
by Athenæus; that is to say, "a cake baked on a hearth or griddle." If
we need go so far, why not fetch our muffins from Memphis, which is
_Môph_ in Hebrew? (See _Hosea_, ix. 6.) It is, perhaps, _mou-pain_, in
old French, _soft bread_, easily converted into _mouffin_.

This is an atom: 
So "crumpet" may be a corruption of _crumpâte_ a paste made of fine flour,
slightly baked. The only difficulty would then be in the {254} first
syllable, concerning, which the ingenuity of your various correspondents,
Mr.
Editor, may be exercised to some effect.

This is an atom: 
Is it connected with the use of the _crimping_ irons in producing these
delicacies?

This is an atom: 
HYPOMAGIRUS.

This is an atom: 
Oxford.

This is an atom: 
_Dulcarnon_.--Dulcarnon is one of those words in Chaucer which Tyrwhitt
professes that he does not understand. It occurs in _Trolius and Creseide_,
book iii. 931.933. Creseide says:--
"I am, til God me better minde sende, At _Dulcarnon_, right at my
witt'is ende.

This is an atom: 
Quod Pandarus ye nece, wol ye here, _Dulcarnon_ clepid is fleming[3] of
wretches."
This passage of _Trolius and Creseide_ is quoted in the life of Sir
Thomas More, given in Wordsworth's _Ecclesiastical Biography_. More's
daughter said to him, when he was in prison, "Father, I can no
further goe; I am come, as Chaucer said of Cressid Dulcarnon, to
my witt's end."
Has this passage been satisfactorily explained since Tyrwhitt's time?
The epithet "Dulcarnon" is mentioned in a note to the translation
of Richard de Bury's _Philobiblon_, London, 1832.

This is an atom: 
I give the note in full.
It is in reference to the word "Ellefuga":--
"This word was a pons asinorum to some good Grecians,--but that is
probably its meaning[4]; at least making it the name of a problem gets
over all difficulty.

This is an atom: 
The allusion is to the flight of Helle, who turned giddy in taking a
flying leap, mounted on a ram, and fell into the sea;--so weak a head
fails in crossing the pons.

This is an atom: 
The problem was invented by Pythagoras, 'and it hath been called by barbarous
writers of the latter time Dulcarnon,'--_Billingsley_.
This name may have been invented after our author's time. Query [Greek:
dolkarenon]."
If we take the words "Dulcarnon" in this sense, it will help to explain
the passage in the _Troilus and Creseide_.

This is an atom: 
E.M.B.

This is an atom: 
_Bishop Barnaby_.--The origin of the term "Bishop Barnaby," as applied
to the Lady-bird, is still unexplained.

This is an atom: 
I wish to observe, as having some possible connexion with the subject,
that the word "Barnaby" in the seventeenth century appears to have had
a particular political signification.

This is an atom: 
For instance, I send you a pamphlet (which you are welcome to, if you
will accept of it) called "_The Head of Nile, or the Turnings and
Windings of the Factious since Sixty, in a dialogue between Whigg and
Barnaby_," London, 1681.

This is an atom: 
In this dialog, Whigg, as might be expected, is the exponent of all
manner of abominable opinions, whilst Barnaby is represented as the
supporter of orthodoxy.

This is an atom: 
Again, in the same year was published Durfey's comedy, "_Sir Barnaby
Whigg_," the union of the two names indicating that the knight's opinions
were entirely regulated by his interest.

This is an atom: 
Q.D.

This is an atom: 
P.S.

This is an atom: 
The pamphlet above alluded to affords another instance of the use of
the word "Factotum," at page 41.: "before the Pope had a great house
there, and became Dominus Factotum, Dominus Deus noster Papu."

This is an atom: 
_Barnacles_.--In _Speculum Mundi, or a Glass representing the Face of
the World_, by John Swan, M.A., 4th edit., 1670, is the following
mention of the Barnacle goose (pp. 243, 244.):--
"In the north parts of _Scotland_, and in the places adjacent,
called _Orchades_, are certain trees found, whereon there groweth a
certain kind of shell-fish, of a white colour, but somewhat tending
to a russet; wherein are contained little living creatures. For in
time of maturity the shells do open, and out of them by little and
little grow those living creatures; which falling into the water when
they drop out of their shells, do become fowls, such as we call _Barnacles_
or _Brant Geese_; but the other that fall upon the land, perish
and come to nothing."
The author then quotes the passage from Gerard where mention is
made of the Barnacle.

This is an atom: 
HENRY KERSLEY.
_Ancient Alms-Dishes_.--I have one of these dishes; diameter 1 foot
4-3/4 inches, and its height 1-1/2 inch. The centre is plain, without
any device, and separated from the circle of inscription by a bold
embossed pattern.
The inscription is _Der infrid gehwart_, in raised (not engraved)
capital letters, 1 inch long, repeated three times in the circle.
Mine is a handsome dish of mixed metal; yielding, when struck, a
fine sound like that of a gong. It has devices of leaves, &c.
engraved on the broad margin, but no date.
I have seen another such dish, in the collection of the late William
Hooper, Esq., of Ross, part of which (and I think the whole of the
under side) had been enamelled, as part of the enamel still adhered
to it. In the centre was engraved the temptation in Eden; but it
was without legend or date.

This is an atom: 
P.H.F.
_Why the American Aborigines are called Indians_.--I have often
wondered how the aborigines of America came to be called Indians;
and for a considerable time I presumed it to be a popular appellation
arising from their dark colour. Lately, however, I fell in with a
copy of _Theatrum Orbis Terrarum_. Antwerp, 1583, by Abraham Ortelius,
geographer to the king; and, in the map entitled _Typus Orbis
Terrarum_.
I find America called _America, sive India Nova_. How it came to
get {255} the name of _India Nova_ is of course another question,
and one which at present I cannot answer.

This is an atom: 
NORTHMAN.
[Footnote 3: Fleming; banishing? from _fleme_, A.S. to banish.]

This is an atom: 
[Footnote 4: "Helleflight," as given in the translation, p. 178.]
* * * * * 
NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.
The arrangements for the _Exhibition of Works of Ancient and Mediæval
Art_ at the rooms of the Society of Arts in the Adelphi, are
proceeding most satisfactorily. Her MAJESTY and PRINCE ALBERT have
manifested the interest they feel in its success, by placing at the
disposal of the Committee for the purposes of the approaching
Exhibition a selection from the magnificent collection of such
objects which is preserved at Windsor.
Messrs. Puttick and Simpson, of 191. Piccadilly, will sell on
Thursday next, and five following days, the extensive and valuable
Library of a well known and eminent Collector; comprising some very
early printed books of extreme rarity, numerous French, Spanish,
and Italian early Romances, an extensive series of ancient Italian
Books quoted by the _Academia della Crusea,_ ancient and modern
Books of Travels, and Oriental Books and MSS.; amongst which latter
are the original MSS. of the celebrated M. Jules de Klaproth.
We have received the following Catalogues:--
"A Catalogue of Scientific and Mathematical Books, comprising
Architecture, Astrology, Magic, Chess, and other Games; Fine Arts,
Heraldry, Naval and Military, Numismatics, Penmanship and Short
Hand, Typography, and Miscellaneous Books now selling at the reduced
prices affixed by William Brown, 130. and 131. Old Street, St.
Luke's, London."
"Catalogue (Part I. Feb. 1. 1850) of Choise, Useful and Curious
Books in most departments of Literature, on Sale, at the very low
prices affixed, by John Russell Smith, 4, Old Compton Street, Soho
Square."
"William Dobson Reeves' Catalogue of Books (Many Rare and Curious),
now on Sale at 98. Chancery Lane."
"Catalogue of very Cheap Books, chiefly Divinity, with a Selection
of Miscellaneous Literature, on Sale, for Ready Money, by T.
Arthur, No. 496. New Oxford street."
"A Catalogue of Fathers of the Church, and Ecclesiastical Writers
to the Fifteenth Century, arranged in Chronological Order, with
Collections, Analyses and Selections, Illustrative and Introductory
Works, and an Alphabetical Index of Authors; on Sale at the Low
Prices affixed, for Ready Money, by C.J. Stewart, 11. King William
Street, West Strand."
We had occasion in a former Number (No. 5. p. 78) to speak in terms
of high and deserved praise of Mr. Stewart's "Catalogue of Bibles
and Biblical Literature;" the present is no less deserving of
commendation, in as much as it gives not only the Fathers and
Ecclesiastical Writers in Chronological order, according to Centuries
(to each of which, by the way, Mr. Stewart affixes its distinctive
character, Apostolic, Gnostic, &c., as given by Cave); but also
marking the precise period in which they severally flourished, so
as to show their succession in each century. So that this Catalogue,
with its Index, and its tempting quotations from Cranmer and Bishop
Hall, which we regret we have not room to quote, will really be
most useful to all Students of Theology and Ecclesiastical History.
* * * * * 
BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES 
WANTED TO PURCHASE.
(_In continuation of Lists in former Nos_.)
GLAMORGANSHIRE PEDIGREES, from the MSS. of Sir Isaac Heard, Knt.For
the first moment, they did not even think of speaking. At last they
exchanged greetings.

This is an atom: 
"Good morning, Silvere."

This is an atom: 
"Good morning, Miette."

This is an atom: 
They were surprised by the strange sound of their voices, which became
singularly soft and sweet in that damp hole. The sound seemed, indeed,
to come from a distance, like the soft music of voices heard of an
evening in the country. They understood that it would suffice to speak
in a whisper in order to hear each other. The well echoed the faintest
breath. Leaning over its brink, they conversed while gazing at one
another's reflection. Miette related how sad she had been the last week.
She was now working at the other end of the Jas, and could only get out
early in the morning. Then she made a pout of annoyance which Silvere
distinguished perfectly, and to which he replied by nodding his head
with an air of vexation. They were exchanging all those gestures and
facial expressions that speech entails. They cared but little for the
wall which separated them now that they could see each other in those
hidden depths.

This is an atom: 
"I knew," continued Miette, with a knowing look, "that you came here to
draw water every morning at the same hour. I can hear the grating of the
pulley from the house. So I made an excuse, I pretended that the water
in this well boiled the vegetables better. I thought that I might come
here every morning to draw water at the same time as you, so as to say
good morning to you without anyone suspecting it."

This is an atom: 
She smiled innocently, as though well pleased with her device, and
ended by saying: "But I did not imagine we should see each other in the
water."

This is an atom: 
It was, in fact, this unhoped-for pleasure which so delighted them. They
only spoke to see their lips move, so greatly did this new frolic amuse
their childish natures. And they resolved to use all means in their
power to meet here every morning. When Miette had said that she must go
away, she told Silvere that he could draw his pail of water. But he did
not dare to shake the rope; Miette was still leaning over--he could see
her smiling face, and it was too painful to him to dispel that smile. As
he slightly stirred his pail, the water murmured, and the smile faded.
Then he stopped, seized with a strange fear; he fancied that he had
vexed her and made her cry. But the child called to him, "Go on! go on!"
with a laugh which the echo prolonged and rendered more sonorous. She
herself then nosily sent down a pail. There was a perfect tempest.
Everything disappeared under the black water. And Silvere made up his
mind to fill two pitchers, while listening to the retreating steps of
Miette on the other side of the wall.

This is an atom: 
From that day, the young people never missed their assignations. The
slumbering water, the white mirrors in which they gazed at one another,
imparted to their interviews a charm which long sufficed their playful,
childish imaginations. They had no desire to see each other face to
face: it seemed much more amusing to them to use the well as a mirror,
and confide their morning greetings to its echo. They soon came to look
upon the well as an old friend. They loved to bend over the motionless
water that resembled molten silver. A greenish glimmer hovered below,
in a mysterious half light, and seemed to change the damp hole into some
hiding-place in the depths of a wood. They saw each other in a sort
of greenish nest bedecked with moss, in the midst of fresh water and
foliage. And all the strangeness of the deep spring, the hollow tower
over which they bent, trembling with fascination, added unconfessed and
delightful fear to their merry laughter. The wild idea occurred to them
of going down and seating themselves on a row of large stones which
formed a kind of circular bench at a few inches above the water. They
would dip their feet in the latter, converse there for hours, and no
one would think of coming to look for them in such a spot. But when
they asked each other what there might be down there, their vague fears
returned; they thought it quite sufficient to let their reflected images
descend into the depths amidst those green glimmers which tinged the
stones with strange moire-like reflections, and amidst those mysterious
noises which rose from the dark corners. Those sounds issuing from the
invisible made them particularly uneasy; they often fancied that voices
were replying to their own; and then they would remain silent, detecting
a thousand faint plaints which they could not understand. These came
from the secret travail of the moisture, the sighs of the atmosphere,
the drops that glided over the stones, and fell below with the
sonorousness of sobs. They would nod affectionately to each other
in order to reassure themselves. Thus the attraction which kept them
leaning over the brink had a tinge of secret terror, like all poignant
charms. But the well still remained their old friend. It was such
an excellent pretext for meeting! Justin, who watched Miette's every
movement, never suspected the cause of her eagerness to go and draw some
water every morning. At times, he saw her from the distance, leaning
over and loitering. "Ah! the lazy thing!" he muttered; "how fond she is
of dawdling about!" How could he suspect that, on the other side of the
wall, there was a wooer contemplating the girl's smile in the water, and
saying to her: "If that red-haired donkey Justin should illtreat you,
just tell me of it, and he shall hear from me!"

This is an atom: 
This amusement lasted for more than a month. It was July then; the
mornings were sultry; the sun shone brightly, and it was quite a
pleasure to come to that damp spot. It was delightful to feel the cold
breath of the well on one's face, and make love amidst this spring water
while the skies were kindling their fires. Miette would arrive out of
breath after crossing the stubble fields; as she ran along, her hair
fell down over her forehead and temples; and it was with flushed face
and dishevelled locks that she would lean over, shaking with laughter,
almost before she had had time to set her pitcher down. Silvere, who
was almost always the first at the well, felt, as he suddenly saw her
smiling face in the water, as keen a joy as he would have experienced
had she suddenly thrown herself into his arms at the bend of a pathway.
Around them the radiant morning hummed with mirth; a wave of warm light,
sonorous with the buzzing of insects, beat against the old wall, the
posts, and the curbstone. They, however, no longer saw the shower of
morning sunshine, nor heard the thousand sounds rising from the ground;
they were in the depths of their green hiding-place, under the earth, in
that mysterious and awesome cavity, and quivered with pleasure as they
lingered there enjoying its fresh coolness and dim light.

This is an atom: 
On some mornings, Miette, who by nature could not long maintain a
contemplative attitude, began to tease; she would shake the rope, and
make drops of water fall in order to ripple the mirrors and deface the
reflections. Silvere would then entreat her to remain still; he, whose
fervour was deeper than hers, knew no keener pleasure than that of
gazing at his love's image reflected so distinctly in every feature.
But she would not listen to him; she would joke and feign a rough old
bogey's voice, to which the echo imparted a raucous melodiousness.

This is an atom: 
"No, no," she would say in chiding fashion; "I don't love you to-day!
I'm making faces at you; see how ugly I am."

This is an atom: 
And she laughed at seeing the fantastic forms which their spreading
faces assumed as they danced upon the disturbed water.

This is an atom: 
One morning she got angry in real earnest. She did not find Silvere at
the trysting-place, and waited for him for nearly a quarter of an hour,
vainly making the pulley grate. She was just about to depart in a rage
when he arrived. As soon as she perceived him she let a perfect tempest
loose in the well, shook her pail in an irritated manner, and made the
blackish water whirl and splash against the stones. In vain did Silvere
try to explain that aunt Dide had detained him. To all his excuses she
replied: "You've vexed me; I don't want to see you."

This is an atom: 
The poor lad, in despair, vainly questioned that sombre cavity, now so
full of lamentable sounds, where, on other days, such a bright vision
usually awaited him amid the silence of the stagnant water. He had to go
away without seeing Miette. On the morrow, arriving before the time,
he gazed sadly into the well, hearing nothing, and thinking that the
obstinate girl would not come, when she, who was already on the other
side slyly watching his arrival, bent over suddenly with a burst of
laughter. All was at once forgotten.

This is an atom: 
In this wise the well was the scene of many a little drama and comedy.
That happy cavity, with its gleaming mirrors and musical echoes, quickly
ripened their love. They endowed it with such strange life, so filled it
with their youthful love, that, long after they had ceased to come and
lean over the brink, Silvere, as he drew water every morning, would
fancy he could see Miette's smiling face in the dim light that still
quivered with the joy they had set there.

This is an atom: 
That month of playful love rescued Miette from her mute despair. She
felt a revival of her affections, her happy childish carelessness, which
had been held in check by the hateful loneliness in which she lived.
The certainty that she was loved by somebody, and that she was no longer
alone in the world, enabled her to endure the persecutions of Justin
and the Faubourg urchins. A song of joy, whose glad notes drowned their
hootings, now sounded in her heart. She thought of her father with
tender compassion, and did not now so frequently yield to dreams of
bitter vengeance. Her dawning love cooled her feverish broodings
like the fresh breezes of the dawn. At the same time she acquired the
instinctive cunning of a young girl in love. She felt that she must
maintain her usual silent and rebellious demeanour if she were to escape
Justin's suspicions. But, in spite of her efforts, her eyes retained a
sweet unruffled expression when the lad bullied her; she was no longer
able to put on her old black look of indignant anger. One morning he
heard her humming to herself at breakfast-time.

This is an atom: 
"You seem very gay, Chantegreil!" he said to her suspiciously, glancing
keenly at her from his lowering eyes. "I bet you've been up to some of
your tricks again!"

This is an atom: 
She shrugged her shoulders, but she trembled inwardly; and she did all
she could to regain her old appearance of rebellious martyrdom. However,
though Justin suspected some secret happiness, it was long before he was
able to discover how his victim had escaped him.

This is an atom: 
Silvere, on his side, enjoyed profound happiness. His daily meetings
with Miette made his idle hours pass pleasantly away. During his
long silent companionship with aunt Dide, he recalled one by one his
remembrances of the morning, revelling in their most trifling details.
From that time forward, the fulness of his heart cloistered him yet more
in the lonely existence which he had adopted with his grandmother. He
was naturally fond of hidden spots, of solitary retirement, where he
could give himself up to his thoughts. At this period already he had
eagerly begun to read all the old odd volumes which he could pick up at
brokers' shops in the Faubourg, and which were destined to lead him to
a strange and generous social religion and morality. His
reading--ill-digested and lacking all solid foundation--gave him
glimpses of the world's vanities and pleasures, especially with regard
to women, which would have seriously troubled his mind if his heart
had not been contented. When Miette came, he received her at first as
a companion, then as the joy and ambition of his life. In the evening,
when he had retired to the little nook where he slept, and hung his lamp
at the head of his strap-bedstead, he would find Miette on every page of
the dusty old volume which he had taken at random from a shelf above his
head and was reading devoutly. He never came across a young girl, a good
and beautiful creature, in his reading, without immediately identifying
her with his sweetheart. And he would set himself in the narrative as
well. If he were reading a love story, it was he who married Miette at
the end, or died with her. If, on the contrary, he were perusing some
political pamphlet, some grave dissertation on social economy, works
which he preferred to romances, for he had that singular partiality for
difficult subjects which characterises persons of imperfect scholarship,
he still found some means of associating her with the tedious themes
which frequently he could not even understand. For instance, he tried
to persuade himself that he was learning how to be good and kind to her
when they were married. He thus associated her with all his visionary
dreamings. Protected by the purity of his affection against the
obscenity of certain eighteenth-century tales which fell into his hands,
he found particular pleasure in shutting himself up with her in those
humanitarian Utopias which some great minds of our own time, infatuated
by visions of universal happiness have imagined. Miette, in his mind,
became quite essential to the abolition of pauperism and the definitive
triumph of the principles of the Revolution. There were nights of
feverish reading, when his mind could not tear itself from his book,
which he would lay down and take up at least a score of times, nights
of voluptuous weariness which he enjoyed till daybreak like some secret
orgie, cramped up in that tiny room, his eyes troubled by the flickering
yellow light, while he yielded to the fever of insomnia and schemed
out new social schemes of the most absurdly ingenuous nature, in which
woman, always personified by Miette, was worshipped by the nations on
their knees.

This is an atom: 
He was predisposed to Utopian ideas by certain hereditary influences;
his grandmother's nervous disorders became in him so much chronic
enthusiasm, striving after everything that was grandiose and impossible.
His lonely childhood, his imperfect education, had developed his natural
tendencies in a singular manner. However, he had not yet reached the age
when the fixed idea plants itself in a man's mind. In the morning, after
he had dipped his head in a bucket of water, he remembered his thoughts
and visions of the night but vaguely; nothing remained of his dreams
save a childlike innocence, full of trustful confidence and yearning
tenderness. He felt like a child again. He ran to the well, solely
desirous of meeting his sweetheart's smile, and tasting the delights
of the radiant morning. And during the day, when thoughts of the future
sometimes made him silent and dreamy, he would often, prompted by some
sudden impulse, spring up and kiss aunt Dide on both cheeks, whereat the
old woman would gaze at him anxiously, perturbed at seeing his eyes so
bright, and gleaming with a joy which she thought she could divine.

This is an atom: 
At last, as time went on, Miette and Silvere began to tire of only
seeing each other's reflection. The novelty of their play was gone, and
now they began to dream of keener pleasures than the well could afford
them. In this longing for reality which came upon them, there was the
wish to see each other face to face, to run through the open fields, and
return out of breath with their arms around each other's waist, clinging
closely together in order that they might the better feel each other's
love. One morning Silvere spoke of climbing over the wall, and walking
in the Jas with Miette. But the child implored him not to perpetrate
such folly, which would place her at Justin's mercy. He then promised to
seek some other means.

This is an atom: 
The wall in which the well was set made a sudden bend a few paces
further on, thereby forming a sort of recess, where the lovers would be
free from observation, if they were to take shelter there. The question
was how to reach this recess. Silvere could no longer entertain the idea
of climbing over, as Miette had appeared so afraid. He secretly thought
of another plan. The little door which Macquart and Adelaide had set up
one night long years previously had remained forgotten in this remote
corner. The owner of the Jas-Meiffren had not even thought of blocking
it up. Blackened by damp and green with moss, its lock and hinges eaten
away with rust, it looked like a part of the old wall. Doubtless the
key was lost; the grass growing beside the lower boards, against which
slight mounds had formed, amply proved that no one had passed that way
for many a long year. However, it was the lost key that Silvere hoped to
find. He knew with what devotion his aunt Dide allowed the relics of the
past to lie rotting wherever they might be. He searched the house for a
week without any result, and went stealthily night by night to see if
he had at last put his hand on the right key during the daytime. In this
way he tried more than thirty keys which had doubtless come from the old
property of the Fouques, and which he found all over the place, against
the walls, on the floors, and at the bottom of drawers. He was becoming
disheartened, when all at once he found the precious key. It was simply
tied by a string to the street door latch-key, which always remained in
the lock. It had hung there for nearly forty years. Aunt Dide must every
day have touched it with her hand, without ever making up her mind to
throw it away, although it could now only carry her back sorrowfully
into the past. When Silvere had convinced himself that it really opened
the little door, he awaited the ensuing day, dreaming of the joyful
surprise which he was preparing for Miette. He had not told her for what
he had been searching.

This is an atom: 
On the morrow, as soon as he heard the girl set her pitcher down, he
gently opened the door, sweeping away with a push the tall weeds which
covered the threshold. Stretching out his head, he saw Miette leaning
over the brink of the well, looking into the water, absorbed in
expectation. Thereupon, in a couple of strides, he reached the recess
formed by the wall, and thence called, "Miette! Miette!" in a soft
voice, which made her tremble. She raised her head, thinking he was on
the coping of the wall. But when she saw him in the Jas, at a few steps
from her, she gave a faint cry of surprise, and ran up to him. They took
each other's hand, and looked at one another, delighted to be so near,
thinking themselves far handsomer like this, in the warm sunshine. It
was the middle of August, the Feast of the Assumption. In the
distance, the bells were pealing in the limpid atmosphere that so often
accompanies great days of festival, an atmosphere full of bright gaiety.

This is an atom: 
"Good morning, Silvere!"

This is an atom: 
"Good morning, Miette!"

This is an atom: 
The voices in which they exchanged their morning greetings sounded
strange to them. They knew only the muffled accents transmitted by the
echo of the well. And now their voices seemed to them as clear as the
notes of a lark. And ah! how delightful it was in that warm corner, in
that holiday atmosphere! They still held each other's hands. Silvere
leaning against the wall, Miette with her figure slightly thrown
backwards. They were about to tell each other all the soft things which
they had not dared to confide to the reverberations of the well, when
Silvere, hearing a slight noise, started, and, turning pale, dropped
Miette's hands. He had just seen aunt Dide standing before him erect and
motionless on the threshold of the doorway.

This is an atom: 
The grandmother had come to the well by chance. And on perceiving, in
the old black wall, the white gap formed by the doorway which Silvere
had left wide open, she had experienced a violent shock. That open gap
seemed to her like a gulf of light violently illumining her past. She
once more saw herself running to the door amidst the morning brightness,
and crossing the threshold full of the transports of her nervous love.
And Macquart was there awaiting her. She hung upon his neck and pressed
against his bosom, whilst the rising sun, following her through the
doorway, which she had left open in her hurry, enveloped them with
radiance. It was a sudden vision which roused her cruelly from the
slumber of old age, like some supreme chastisement, and awakened a
multitude of bitter memories within her. Had the well, had the entire
wall, disappeared beneath the earth, she would not have been more
stupefied. She had never thought that this door would open again. In her
mind it had been walled up ever since the hour of Macquart's death. And
amidst her amazement she felt angry, indignant with the sacrilegious
hand that had penetrated this violation, and left that white open space
agape like a yawning tomb. She stepped forward, yielding to a kind of
fascination, and halted erect within the framework of the door.

This is an atom: 
Then she gazed out before her, with a feeling of dolorous surprise. She
had certainly been told that the old enclosure of the Fouques was
now joined to the Jas-Meiffren; but she would never have thought the
associations of her youth could have vanished so completely. It seemed
as though some tempest had carried off everything that her memory
cherished. The old dwelling, the large kitchen-garden, the beds of green
vegetables, all had disappeared. Not a stone, not a tree of former times
remained. And instead of the scene amidst which she had grown up, and
which in her mind's eye she had seen but yesterday, there lay a strip
of barren soil, a broad patch of stubbles, bare like a desert.
Henceforward, when, on closing her eyes, she might try to recall the
objects of the past, that stubble would always appear to her like a
shroud of yellowish drugget spread over the soil, in which her youth lay
buried. In the presence of that unfamiliar commonplace scene her heart
died, as it were, a second time. Now all was completely, finally ended.
She was robbed even of her dreams of the past. Then she began to regret
that she had yielded to the attraction of that white opening, of that
doorway gaping upon the days which were now for ever lost.

This is an atom: 
She was about to retire and close the accursed door, without even
seeking to discover who had opened it, when she suddenly perceived
Miette and Silvere. And the sight of the two young lovers, who, with
hanging heads, nervously awaited her glance, kept her on the threshold,
quivering with yet keener pain. She now understood all. To the very end,
she was destined to picture herself there, clasped in Macquart's arms
in the bright sunshine. Yet a second time had the door served as an
accomplice. Where love had once passed, there was it passing again.
'Twas the eternal and endless renewal, with present joys and future
tears. Aunt Dide could only see the tears, and a sudden presentiment
showed her the two children bleeding, with stricken hearts. Overwhelmed
by the recollection of her life's sorrow, which this spot had just
awakened within her, she grieved for her dear Silvere. She alone was
guilty; if she had not formerly had that door made Silvere would not
now be at a girl's feet in that lonely nook, intoxicating himself with a
bliss which prompts and angers the jealousy of death.

This is an atom: 
After a brief pause, she went up to the young man, and, without a
word, took him by the hand. She might, perhaps, have left them there,
chattering under the wall, had she not felt that she herself was, to
some extent, an accomplice in this fatal love. As she came back with
Silvere, she turned on hearing the light footfall of Miette, who, having
quickly taken up her pitcher, was hastening across the stubble. She was
running wildly, glad at having escaped so easily. And aunt Dide smiled
involuntarily as she watched her bound over the ground like a runaway
goat.

This is an atom: 
"She is very young," she murmured, "she has plenty of time."

This is an atom: 
She meant, no doubt, that Miette had plenty of time before her to suffer
and weep. Then, turning her eyes upon Silvere, who with a glance of
ecstasy had followed the child as she ran off in the bright sunshine,
she simply added: "Take care, my boy; this sort of thing sometimes kills
one."

This is an atom: 
These were the only words she spoke with reference to the incident which
had awakened all the sorrows that lay slumbering in the depths of her
being. Silence had become a real religion with her. When Silvere came
in, she double-locked the door, and threw the key down the well. In
this wise she felt certain that the door would no longer make her an
accomplice. She examined it for a moment, glad at seeing it reassume its
usual gloomy, barrier-like aspect. The tomb was closed once more; the
white gap was for ever boarded up with that damp-stained mossy timber
over which the snails had shed silvery tears.

This is an atom: 
In the evening, aunt Dide had another of those nervous attacks which
came upon her at intervals. At these times she would often talk aloud
and ramble incoherently, as though she was suffering from nightmare.
That evening, while Silvere held her down on her bed, he heard her
stammer in a panting voice such words as "custom-house officer," "fire,"
and "murder." And she struggled, and begged for mercy, and dreamed aloud
of vengeance. At last, as always happened when the attack was drawing to
a close, she fell into a strange fright, her teeth chattering, while her
limbs quivered with abject terror. Finally, after raising herself into
a sitting posture, she cast a haggard look of astonishment at one and
another corner of the room, and then fell back upon the pillow, heaving
deep sighs. She was, doubtless, a prey to some hallucination. However,
she drew Silvere to her bosom, and seemed to some degree to recognise
him, though ever and anon she confused him with someone else.

This is an atom: 
"There they are!" she stammered. "Do you see? They are going to take
you, they will kill you again. I don't want them to--Send them away,
tell them I won't; tell them they are hurting me, staring at me like
that--"

This is an atom: 
Then she turned to the wall, to avoid seeing the people of whom she was
talking. And after an interval of silence, she continued: "You are near
me, my child, aren't you? You must not leave me. I thought I was going
to die just now. We did wrong to make an opening in the wall. I have
suffered ever since. I was certain that door would bring us further
misfortune--Oh! the innocent darlings, what sorrow! They will kill them
as well, they will be shot down like dogs."

This is an atom: 
Then she relapsed into catalepsy; she was no longer even aware of
Silvere's presence. Suddenly, however, she sat up, and gazed at the foot
of her bed, with a fearful expression of terror.

This is an atom: 
"Why didn't you send them away?" she cried, hiding her white head
against the young man's breast. "They are still there. The one with the
gun is making signs that he is going to fire."

This is an atom: 
Shortly afterwards she fell into the heavy slumber that usually
terminated these attacks. On the next day, she seemed to have forgotten
everything. She never again spoke to Silvere of the morning on which she
had found him with a sweetheart behind the wall.

This is an atom: 
The young people did not see each other for a couple of days. When
Miette ventured to return to the well, they resolved not to recommence
the pranks which had upset aunt Dide. However, the meeting which had
been so strangely interrupted had filled them with a keen desire to
meet again in some happy solitude. Weary of the delights afforded by the
well, and unwilling to vex aunt Dide by seeing Miette again on the other
side of the wall, Silvere begged the girl to meet him somewhere else.
She required but little pressing; she received the proposal with the
willing smile of a frolicsome lass who has no thought of evil. What
made her smile was the idea of outwitting that spy of a Justin. When the
lovers had come to agreement, they discussed at length the choice of a
favourable spot. Silvere proposed the most impossible trysting-places.
He planned regular journeys, and even suggested meeting the young girl
at midnight in the barns of the Jas-Meiffren. Miette, who was much more
practical, shrugged her shoulders, declaring she would try to think of
some spot. On the morrow, she tarried but a minute at the well, just
time enough to smile at Silvere and tell him to be at the far end of the
Aire Saint-Mittre at about ten o'clock in the evening. One may be
sure that the young man was punctual. All day long Miette's choice had
puzzled him, and his curiosity increased when he found himself in the
narrow lane formed by the piles of planks at the end of the plot of
ground. "She will come this way," he said to himself, looking along the
road to Nice. But he suddenly heard a loud shaking of boughs behind
the wall, and saw a laughing head, with tumbled hair, appear above the
coping, whilst a joyous voice called out: "It's me!"

This is an atom: 
And it was, in fact, Miette, who had climbed like an urchin up one of
the mulberry-trees, which even nowadays still border the boundary of
the Jas-Meiffren. In a couple of leaps she reached the tombstone, half
buried in the corner at the end of the lane. Silvere watched her descend
with delight and surprise, without even thinking of helping her. As soon
as she had alighted, however, he took both her hands in his, and said:
"How nimble you are!--you climb better than I do."

This is an atom: 
It was thus that they met for the first time in that hidden corner where
they were destined to pass such happy hours. From that evening forward
they saw each other there nearly every night. They now only used the
well to warn each other of unforeseen obstacles to their meetings, of
a change of time, and of all the trifling little news that seemed
important in their eyes, and allowed of no delay. It sufficed for the
one who had a communication to make to set the pulley in motion, for its
creaking noise could be heard a long way off. But although, on certain
days, they summoned one another two or three times in succession to
speak of trifles of immense importance, it was only in the evening in
that lonely little passage that they tasted real happiness. Miette was
exceptionally punctual. She fortunately slept over the kitchen, in a
room where the winter provisions had been kept before her arrival, and
which was reached by a little private staircase. She was thus able to go
out at all hours, without being seen by Rebufat or Justin. Moreover, if
the latter should ever see her returning she intended to tell him some
tale or other, staring at him the while with that stern look which
always reduced him to silence.

This is an atom: 
Ah! how happy those warm evenings were! The lovers had now reached the
first days of September, a month of bright sunshine in Provence. It was
hardly possible for them to join each other before nine o'clock. Miette
arrived from over the wall, in surmounting which she soon acquired such
dexterity that she was almost always on the old tombstone before Silvere
had time to stretch out his arms. She would laugh at her own strength
and agility as, for a moment, with her hair in disorder, she remained
almost breathless, tapping her skirt to make it fall. Her sweetheart
laughingly called her an impudent urchin. In reality he much admired
her pluck. He watched her jump over the wall with the complacency of an
older brother supervising the exercises of a younger one. Indeed,
there was yet much that was childlike in their growing love. On several
occasions they spoke of going on some bird's-nesting expedition on the
banks of the Viorne.

This is an atom: 
"You'll see how I can climb," said Miette proudly. "When I lived at
Chavanoz, I used to go right up to the top of old Andre's walnut-trees.
Have you ever taken a magpie's nest? It's very difficult!"

This is an atom: 
Then a discussion arose as to how one ought to climb a poplar. Miette
stated her opinions, with all a boy's confidence.

This is an atom: 
However, Silvere, clasping her round the knees, had by this time lifted
her to the ground, and then they would walk on, side by side, their arms
encircling each other's waist. Though they were but children, fond of
frolicsome play and chatter, and knew not even how to speak of love, yet
they already partook of love's delight. It sufficed them to press each
other's hands. Ignorant whither their feelings and their hearts were
drifting, they did not seek to hide the blissful thrills which the
slightest touch awoke. Smiling, often wondering at the delight they
experienced, they yielded unconsciously to the sweetness of new feelings
even while talking, like a couple of schoolboys, of the magpies' nests
which are so difficult to reach.

This is an atom: 
And as they talked they went down the silent path, between the piles of
planks and the wall of the Jas-Meiffren. They never went beyond the end
of that narrow blind alley, but invariably retraced their steps. They
were quite at home there. Miette, happy in the knowledge of their
safe concealment, would often pause and congratulate herself on her
discovery.

This is an atom: 
"Wasn't I lucky!" she would gleefully exclaim. "We might walk a long way
without finding such a good hiding-place."

This is an atom: 
The thick grass muffled the noise of their footsteps. They were steeped
in gloom, shut in between two black walls, and only a strip of dark sky,
spangled with stars, was visible above their heads. And as they stepped
along, pacing this path which resembled a dark stream flowing beneath
the black star-sprent sky, they were often thrilled with undefinable
emotion, and lowered their voices, although there was nobody to hear
them. Surrendering themselves as it were to the silent waves of night,
over which they seemed to drift, they recounted to one another, with
lovers' rapture, the thousand trifles of the day.

This is an atom: 
At other times, on bright nights, when the moonlight clearly outlined
the wall and the timber-stacks, Miette and Silvere would romp about with
all the carelessness of children. The path stretched out, alight with
white rays, and retaining no suggestion of secrecy, and the young people
laughed and chased each other like boys at play, at times venturing even
to climb upon the piles of timber. Silvere was occasionally obliged to
frighten Miette by telling her that Justin might be watching her from
over the wall. Then, quite out of breath, they would stroll side
by side, and plan how they might some day go for a scamper in the
Sainte-Claire meadows, to see which of the two would catch the other.

This is an atom: 
Their growing love thus accommodated itself to dark and clear nights.
Their hearts were ever on the alert, and a little shade sufficed to
sweeten the pleasure of their embrace, and soften their laughter. This
dearly-loved retreat--so gay in the moonshine, so strangely thrilling
in the gloom--seemed an inexhaustible source of both gaiety and silent
emotion. They would remain there until midnight, while the town dropped
off to sleep and the lights in the windows of the Faubourg went out one
by one.

This is an atom: 
They were never disturbed in their solitude. At that late hour children
were no longer playing at hide-and-seek behind the piles of planks.
Occasionally, when the young couple heard sounds in the distance--the
singing of some workmen as they passed along the road, or conversation
coming from the neighbouring sidewalks--they would cast stealthy glances
over the Aire Saint-Mittre. The timber-yard stretched out, empty of
all, save here and there some falling shadows. On warm evenings they
sometimes caught glimpses of loving couples there, and of old men
sitting on the big beams by the roadside. When the evenings grew colder,
all that they ever saw on the melancholy, deserted spot was some gipsy
fire, before which, perhaps, a few black shadows passed to and fro.
Through the still night air words and sundry faint sounds were wafted to
them, the "good-night" of a townsman shutting his door, the closing of a
window-shutter, the deep striking of a clock, all the parting sounds of
a provincial town retiring to rest. And when Plassans was slumbering,
they might still hear the quarrelling of the gipsies and the crackling
of their fires, amidst which suddenly rose the guttural voices of girls
singing in a strange tongue, full of rugged accents.

This is an atom: 
But the lovers did not concern themselves much with what went on in the
Aire Saint-Mittre; they hastened back into their own little privacy, and
again walked along their favourite retired path. Little did they care
for others, or for the town itself! The few planks which separated them
from the wicked world seemed to them, after a while, an insurmountable
rampart. They were so secluded, so free in this nook, situated though it
was in the very midst of the Faubourg, at only fifty paces from the Rome
Gate, that they sometimes fancied themselves far away in some hollow of
the Viorne, with the open country around them. Of all the sounds
which reached them, only one made them feel uneasy, that of the clocks
striking slowly in the darkness. At times, when the hour sounded, they
pretended not to hear, at other moments they stopped short as if to
protest. However, they could not go on for ever taking just another
ten minutes, and so the time came when they were at last obliged to say
good-night. Then Miette reluctantly climbed upon the wall again. But all
was not ended yet, they would linger over their leave-taking for a
good quarter of an hour. When the girl had climbed upon the wall, she
remained there with her elbows on the coping, and her feet supported
by the branches of the mulberry-tree, which served her as a ladder.
Silvere, perched on the tombstone, was able to take her hands again, and
renew their whispered conversation. They repeated "till to-morrow!" a
dozen times, and still and ever found something more to say. At last
Silvere began to scold.

This is an atom: 
"Come, you must get down, it is past midnight."

This is an atom: 
But Miette, with a girl's waywardness, wished him to descend first; she
wanted to see him go away. And as he persisted in remaining, she ended
by saying abruptly, by way of punishment, perhaps: "Look! I am going to
jump down."

This is an atom: 
Then she sprang from the mulberry-tree, to the great consternation of
Silvere. He heard the dull thud of her fall, and the burst of laughter
with which she ran off, without choosing to reply to his last adieu. For
some minutes he would remain watching her vague figure as it disappeared
in the darkness, then, slowly descending, he regained the Impasse
Saint-Mittre.

This is an atom: 
During two years they came to the path every day. At the time of their
first meetings they enjoyed some beautiful warm nights. They might
almost have fancied themselves in the month of May, the month of
seething sap, when a pleasant odour of earth and fresh leaves pervades
the warm air. This _renouveau_, this second spring, was like a gift from
heaven which allowed them to run freely about the path and tighten their
bonds of affection.

This is an atom: 
At last came rain, and snow, and frost. But the disagreeableness of
winter did not keep them away. Miette put on her long brown pelisse, and
they both made light of the bad weather. When the nights were dry and
clear, and puffs of wind raised the hoar frost beneath their footsteps
and fell on their faces like taps from a switch, they refrained from
sitting down. They walked quickly to and fro, wrapped in the pelisse,
their cheeks blue with cold, and their eyes watering; and they laughed
heartily, quite quivering with mirth, at the rapidity of their
march through the freezing atmosphere. One snowy evening they amused
themselves with making an enormous snowball, which they rolled into
a corner. It remained there fully a month, which caused them fresh
astonishment each time they met in the path. Nor did the rain frighten
them. They came to see each other through the heaviest downpours, though
they got wet to the skin in doing so. Silvere would hasten to the spot,
saying to himself that Miette would never be mad enough to come; and
when Miette arrived, he could not find it in his heart to scold her.
In reality he had been expecting her. At last he sought some shelter
against the inclement weather, knowing quite well that they would
certainly come out, however much they might promise one another not to
do so when it rained. To find a shelter he only had to disturb one of
the timber-stacks; pulling out several pieces of wood and arranging them
so that they would move easily, in such wise that he could displace and
replace them at pleasure.

This is an atom: 
From that time forward the lovers possessed a sort of low and narrow
sentry-box, a square hole, which was only big enough to hold them
closely squeezed together on a beam which they had left at the bottom
of the little cell. Whenever it rained, the first to arrive would take
shelter here; and on finding themselves together again they would listen
with delight to the rain beating on the piles of planks. Before and
around them, through the inky blackness of the night, came a rush of
water which they could not see, but which resounded continuously like
the roar of a mob. They were nevertheless quite alone, as though they
had been at the end of the world or beneath the sea. They never felt so
happy, so isolated, as when they found themselves in that timber-stack,
in the midst of some such deluge which threatened to carry them away at
every moment. Their bent knees almost reached the opening, and though
they thrust themselves back as far as possible, the spray of the rain
bathed their cheeks and hands. The big drops, falling from the planks,
splashed at regular intervals at their feet. The brown pelisse kept them
warm, and the nook was so small that Miette was compelled to sit almost
on Silvere's knees. And they would chatter and then lapse into silence,
overcome with languor, lulled by the warmth of their embrace and the
monotonous beating of the shower. For hours and hours they remained
there, with that same enjoyment of the rain which prompts little
children to stroll along solemnly in stormy weather with open umbrellas
in their hands. After a while they came to prefer the rainy evenings,
though their parting became more painful on those occasions. Miette was
obliged to climb the wall in the driving rain, and cross the puddles of
the Jas-Meiffren in perfect darkness. As soon as she had left his arms,
she was lost to Silvere amidst the gloom and the noise of the falling
water. In vain he listened, he was deafened, blinded. However, the
anxiety caused by this brusque separation proved an additional charm,
and, until the morrow, each would be uneasy lest anything should have
befallen the other in such weather, when one would not even have turned
a dog out of doors. Perchance one of them had slipped, or lost the way;
such were the mutual fears which possessed them, and rendered their next
interview yet more loving.

This is an atom: 
At last the fine days returned, April brought mild nights, and the grass
in the green alley sprouted up wildly. Amidst the stream of life flowing
from heaven and rising from the earth, amidst all the intoxication of
the budding spring-time, the lovers sometimes regretted their winter
solitude, the rainy evenings and the freezing nights, during which they
had been so isolated so far from all human sounds. At present the days
did not draw to a close soon enough, and they grew impatient with the
lagging twilights. When the night had fallen sufficiently for Miette to
climb upon the wall without danger of being seen, and they could at last
glide along their dear path, they no longer found there the solitude
congenial to their shy, childish love. People began to flock to the Aire
Saint-Mittre, the urchins of the Faubourg remained there, romping about
the beams, and shouting, till eleven o'clock at night. It even happened
occasionally that one of them would go and hide behind the piles of
timber, and assail Miette and Silvere with boyish jeers. The fear of
being surprised amidst that general awakening of life as the season
gradually grew warmer, tinged their meetings with anxiety.

This is an atom: 
Then, too, they began to stifle in the narrow lane. Never had it
throbbed with so ardent a quiver; never had that soil, in which the
last bones left of the former cemetery lay mouldering, sent forth such
oppressive and disturbing odours. They were still too young to relish
the voluptuous charm of that secluded nook which the springtide filled
with fever. The grass grew to their knees, they moved to and fro with
difficulty, and certain plants, when they crushed their young shoots,
sent forth a pungent odour which made them dizzy. Then, seized with
strange drowsiness and staggering with giddiness, their feet as
though entangled in the grass, they would lean against the wall, with
half-closed eyes, unable to move a step. All the soft languor from the
skies seemed to penetrate them.

This is an atom: 
With the petulance of beginners, impatient and irritated at this sudden
faintness, they began to think their retreat too confined, and decided
to ramble through the open fields. Every evening came fresh frolics.
Miette arrived with her pelisse; they wrapped themselves in it, and
then, gliding past the walls, reached the high-road and the open
country, the broad fields where the wind rolled with full strength,
like the waves at high tide. And here they no longer felt stifled; they
recovered all their youthfulness, free from the giddy intoxication born
of the tall rank weeds of the Aire Saint-Mittre.

This is an atom: 
During two summers they rambled through the district. Every rock ledge,
every bed of turf soon knew them; there was not a cluster of trees, a
hedge, or a bush, which did not become their friend. They realized their
dreams: they chased each other wildly over the meadows of Sainte-Claire,
and Miette ran so well that Silvere had to put his best foot forward
to catch her. Sometimes, too, they went in search of magpies' nests.
Headstrong Miette, wishing to show how she had climbed trees at
Chavanoz, would tie up her skirts with a piece of string, and ascend the
highest poplars; while Silvere stood trembling beneath, with his arms
outstretched to catch her should she slip. These frolics so turned them
from thoughts of love that one evening they almost fought like a couple
of lads coming out of school. But there were nooks in the country side
which were not healthful for them. So long as they rambled on they were
continually shouting with laughter, pushing and teasing one another.
They covered miles and miles of ground; sometimes they went as far as
the chain of the Garrigues, following the narrowest paths and cutting
across the fields. The region belonged to them; they lived there as in a
conquered territory, enjoying all that the earth and the sky could give
them. Miette, with a woman's lack of scruple, did not hesitate to pluck
a bunch of grapes, or a cluster of green almonds, from the vines
and almond-trees whose boughs brushed her as she passed; and at this
Silvere, with his absolute ideas of honesty, felt vexed, although he
did not venture to find fault with the girl, whose occasional sulking
distressed him. "Oh! the bad girl!" thought he, childishly exaggerating
the matter, "she would make a thief of me." But Miette would thereupon
force his share of the stolen fruit into his mouth. The artifices he
employed, such as holding her round the waist, avoiding the fruit trees,
and making her run after him when they were near the vines, so as
to keep her out of the way of temptation, quickly exhausted his
imagination. At last there was nothing to do but to make her sit
down. And then they again began to experience their former stifling
sensations. The gloomy valley of the Viorne particularly disturbed
them. When weariness brought them to the banks of the torrent, all their
childish gaiety seemed to disappear. A grey shadow floated under the
willows, like the scented crape of a woman's dress. The children felt
this crape descend warm and balmy from the voluptuous shoulders of the
night, kiss their temples and envelop them with irresistible languor. In
the distance the crickets chirped in the meadows of Sainte-Claire,
and at their feet the ripples of the Viorne sounded like lovers'
whispers--like the soft cooing of humid lips. The stars cast a rain of
sparkles from the slumbering heavens. And, amidst the throbbing of the
sky, the waters and the darkness, the children reposing on the grass
sought each other's hands and pressed them.

This is an atom: 
Silvere, who vaguely understood the danger of these ecstasies, would
sometimes jump up and propose to cross over to one of the islets left
by the low water in the middle of the stream. Both ventured forth, with
bare feet. Miette made light of the pebbles, refusing Silvere's help,
and it once happened that she sat down in the very middle of the stream;
however, there were only a few inches of water, and she escaped with
nothing worse than a wet petticoat. Then, having reached the island,
they threw themselves on the long neck of sand, their eyes on a level
with the surface of the river whose silvery scales they saw quivering
far away in the clear night. Then Miette would declare that they were
in a boat, that the island was certainly floating; she could feel it
carrying her along. The dizziness caused by the rippling of the water
amused them for a moment, and they lingered there, singing in an
undertone, like boatmen as they strike the water with their oars. At
other times, when the island had a low bank, they sat there as on a bed
of verdure, and let their bare feet dangle in the stream. And then for
hours they chatted together, swinging their legs, and splashing the
water, delighted to set a tempest raging in the peaceful pool whose
freshness cooled their fever.

This is an atom: 
These footbaths suggested a dangerous idea to Miette. Nothing would
satisfy her but a complete bath. A little above the bridge over the
Viorne there was a very convenient spot, she said, barely three or four
feet deep and quite safe; the weather was so warm, it would be so nice
to have the water up to their necks; besides which, she had been dying
to learn to swim for such a long time, and Silvere would be able to
teach her. Silvere raised objections; it was not prudent at night time;
they might be seen; perhaps, too they might catch cold. However, nothing
could turn Miette from her purpose. One evening she came with a bathing
costume which she had made out of an old dress; and Silvere was then
obliged to go back to aunt Dide's for his bathing drawers. Their
proceedings were characterised by great simplicity. Miette disrobed
herself beneath the shade of a stout willow; and when both were ready,
enveloped in the blackness which fell from the foliage around them, they
gaily entered the cool water, oblivious of all previous scruples, and
knowing in their innocence no sense of shame. They remained in the river
quite an hour, splashing and throwing water into each other's faces;
Miette now getting cross, now breaking out into laughter, while Silvere
gave her her first lesson, dipping her head under every now and again so
as to accustom her to the water. As long as he held her up she threw her
arms and legs about violently, thinking she was swimming; but directly
he let her go, she cried and struggled, striking the water with her
outstretched hands, clutching at anything she could get hold of, the
young man's waist or one of his wrists. She leant against him for an
instant, resting, out of breath and dripping with water; and then she
cried: "Once more; but you do it on purpose, you don't hold me."

This is an atom: 
At the end of a fortnight, the girl was able to swim. With her limbs
moving freely, rocked by the stream, playing with it, she yielded form
and spirit alike to its soft motion, to the silence of the heavens,
and the dreaminess of the melancholy banks. As she and Silvere swam
noiselessly along, she seemed to see the foliage of both banks thicken
and hang over them, draping them round as with a huge curtain. When
the moon shone, its rays glided between the trunks of the trees, and
phantoms seemed to flit along the river-side in white robes. Miette felt
no nervousness, however, only an indefinable emotion as she followed
the play of the shadows. As she went onward with slower motion, the calm
water, which the moon converted into a bright mirror, rippled at
her approach like a silver-broidered cloth; eddies widened and lost
themselves amid the shadows of the banks, under the hanging willow
branches, whence issued weird, plashing sounds. At every stroke she
perceived recesses full of sound; dark cavities which she hastened
to pass by; clusters and rows of trees, whose sombre masses were
continually changing form, stretching forward and apparently following
her from the summit of the bank. And when she threw herself on her back,
the depths of the heavens affected her still more. From the fields, from
the distant horizon, which she could no longer see, a solemn lingering
strain, composed of all the sighs of the night, was wafted to her.

This is an atom: 
She was not of a dreamy nature; it was physically, through the medium of
each of her senses, that she derived enjoyment from the sky, the river,
and the play of light and shadow. The river, in particular, bore her
along with endless caresses. When she swam against the current she was
delighted to feel the stream flow rapidly against her bosom and limbs.
She dipped herself in it yet more deeply, with the water reaching to her
lips, so that it might pass over her shoulders, and envelop her, from
chin to feet, with flying kisses. Then she would float, languid and
quiescent, on the surface, whilst the ripples glided softly between her
costume and her skin. And she would also roll over in the still pools
like a cat on a carpet; and swim from the luminous patches where
the moonbeams were bathing, to the dark water shaded by the foliage,
shivering the while, as though she had quitted a sunny plain and then
felt the cold from the boughs falling on her neck.

This is an atom: 
She now remained quite silent in the water, and would not allow Silvere
to touch her. Gliding softly by his side, she swam on with the light
rustling of a bird flying across the copse, or else she would circle
round him, a prey to vague disquietude which she did not comprehend.
He himself darted quickly away if he happened to brush against her.
The river was now but a source of enervating intoxication, voluptuous
languor, which disturbed them strangely. When they emerged from their
bath they felt dizzy, weary, and drowsy. Fortunately, the girl declared
one evening that she would bathe no more, as the cold water made the
blood run to her head. And it was in all truth and innocence that she
said this.

This is an atom: 
Then their long conversations began anew. The dangers to which the
innocence of their love had lately been exposed had left no other trace
in Silvere's mind than great admiration for Miette's physical strength.
She had learned to swim in a fortnight, and often, when they raced
together, he had seen her stem the current with a stroke as rapid as his
own. He, who delighted in strength and bodily exercises, felt a
thrill of pleasure at seeing her so strong, so active and adroit. He
entertained at heart a singular admiration for her stout arms. One
evening, after one of the first baths that had left them so playful,
they caught each other round the waist on a strip of sand, and wrestled
for several minutes without Silvere being able to throw Miette. At
last, indeed, it was the young man who lost his balance, while the girl
remained standing. Her sweetheart treated her like a boy, and it was
those long rambles of theirs, those wild races across the meadows, those
birds' nests filched from the tree crests, those struggles and violent
games of one and another kind that so long shielded them and their love
from all impurity.

This is an atom: 
Then, too, apart from his youthful admiration for his sweetheart's
dashing pluck, Silvere felt for her all the compassionate tenderness of
a heart that ever softened towards the unfortunate. He, who could never
see any forsaken creature, a poor man, or a child, walking barefooted
along the dusty roads, without a throb of pity, loved Miette because
nobody else loved her, because she virtually led an outcast's hard life.
When he saw her smile he was deeply moved by the joy he brought her.
Moreover, the child was a wildling, like himself, and they were of the
same mind in hating all the gossips of the Faubourg. The dreams in which
Silvere indulged in the daytime, while he plied his heavy hammer round
the cartwheels in his master's shop, were full of generous enthusiasm.
He fancied himself Miette's redeemer. All his reading rushed to his
head; he meant to marry his sweetheart some day, in order to raise her
in the eyes of the world. It was like a holy mission that he imposed
upon himself, that of redeeming and saving the convict's daughter. And
his head was so full of certain theories and arguments, that he did not
tell himself these things in simple fashion, but became lost in perfect
social mysticism; imagining rehabilitation in the form of an apotheosis
in which he pictured Miette seated on a throne, at the end of the Cours
Sauvaire, while the whole town prostrated itself before her, entreating
her pardon and singing her praises. Happily he forgot all these fine
things as soon as Miette jumped over the wall, and said to him on the
high road: "Let us have a race! I'm sure you won't catch me."

This is an atom: 
However, if the young man dreamt like this of the glorification of his
sweetheart, he also showed such passion for justice that he often made
her weep on speaking to her about her father. In spite of the softening
effect which Silvere's friendship had had upon her, she still at times
gave way to angry outbreaks of temper, when all the stubbornness and
rebellion latent in her nature stiffened her with scowling eyes and
tightly-drawn lips. She would then contend that her father had done
quite right to kill the gendarme, that the earth belongs to everybody,
and that one has the right to fire a gun when and where one likes.
Thereupon Silvere, in a grave voice, explained the law to her as he
understood it, with strange commentaries which would have startled the
whole magistracy of Plassans. These discussions took place most often in
some remote corner of the Sainte-Claire meadows. The grassy carpet of a
dusky green hue stretched further than they could see, undotted even by
a single tree, and the sky seemed colossal, spangling the bare horizon
with the stars. It seemed to the young couple as if they were being
rocked on a sea of verdure. Miette argued the point obstinately; she
asked Silvere if her father should have let the gendarme kill him, and
Silvere, after a momentary silence, replied that, in such a case, it
was better to be the victim than the murderer, and that it was a great
misfortune for anyone to kill a fellow man, even in legitimate defence.
The law was something holy to him, and the judges had done right in
sending Chantegreil to the galleys. At this the girl grew angry, and
almost struck her sweetheart, crying out that he was as heartless as the
rest. And as he still firmly defended his ideas of justice, she finished
by bursting into sobs, and stammering that he was doubtless ashamed
of her, since he was always reminding her of her father's crime. These
discussions ended in tears, in mutual emotion. But although the child
cried, and acknowledged that she was perhaps wrong, she still retained
deep within her a wild resentful temper. She once related, with hearty
laughter, that she had seen a gendarme fall off his horse and break his
leg. Apart from this, Miette only lived for Silvere. When he asked her
about her uncle and cousin, she replied that "She did not know;" and
if he pressed her, fearing that they were making her too unhappy at the
Jas-Meiffren, she simply answered that she worked hard, and that nothing
had changed. She believed, however, that Justin had at last found out
what made her sing in the morning, and filled her eyes with delight. But
she added: "What does it matter? If ever he comes to disturb us we'll
receive him in such a way that he won't be in a hurry to meddle with our
affairs any more."

This is an atom: 
Now and again the open country, their long rambles in the fresh air,
wearied them somewhat. They then invariably returned to the Aire
Saint-Mittre, to the narrow lane, whence they had been driven by the
noisy summer evenings, the pungent scent of the trodden grass, all the
warm oppressive emanations. On certain nights, however, the path proved
cooler, and the winds freshened it so that they could remain there
without feeling faint. They then enjoyed a feeling of delightful repose.
Seated on the tombstone, deaf to the noise of the children and gipsies,
they felt at home again. Silvere had on various occasions picked
up fragments of bones, even pieces of skulls, and they were fond of
speaking of the ancient burial-ground. It seemed to them, in their
lively fancies, that their love had shot up like some vigorous plant in
this nook of soil which dead men's bones had fertilised. It had grown,
indeed, like those wild weeds, it had blossomed as blossom the poppies
which sway like bare bleeding hearts at the slightest breeze. And
they ended by fancying that the warm breaths passing over them, the
whisperings heard in the gloom, the long quivering which thrilled the
path, came from the dead folk sighing their departed passions in
their faces, telling them the stories of their bridals, as they turned
restlessly in their graves, full of a fierce longing to live and love
again. Those fragments of bone, they felt convinced of it, were full of
affection for them; the shattered skulls grew warm again by contact with
their own youthful fire, the smallest particles surrounded them with
passionate whispering, anxious solicitude, throbbing jealousy. And when
they departed, the old burial-ground seemed to groan. Those weeds,
in which their entangled feet often stumbled on sultry nights, were
fingers, tapered by tomb life, that sprang up from the earth to detain
them and cast them into each other's arms. That pungent and penetrating
odour exhaled by the broken stems was the fertilising perfume, the
mighty quintessence of life which is slowly elaborated in the grave,
and intoxicates the lovers who wander in the solitude of the paths.
The dead, the old departed dead, longed for the bridal of Miette and
Silvere.

This is an atom: 
They were never afraid. The sympathy which seemed to hover around them
thrilled them and made them love the invisible beings whose soft touch
they often imagined they could feel, like a gentle flapping of wings.
Sometimes they were saddened by sweet melancholy, and could not
understand what the dead desired of them. They went on basking in their
innocent love, amidst this flood of sap, this abandoned cemetery, whose
rich soil teemed with life, and imperiously demanded their union. They
still remained ignorant of the meaning of the buzzing voices which they
heard ringing in their ears, the sudden glow which sent the blood flying
to their faces.

This is an atom: 
They often questioned each other about the remains which they
discovered. Miette, after a woman's fashion, was partial to lugubrious
subjects. At each new discovery she launched into endless suppositions.
If the bone were small, she spoke of some beautiful girl a prey to
consumption, or carried off by fever on the eve of her marriage; if the
bone were large, she pictured some big old man, a soldier or a judge,
some one who had inspired others with terror. For a long time the
tombstone particularly engaged their attention. One fine moonlight night
Miette distinguished some half-obliterated letters on one side of it,
and thereupon she made Silvere scrape the moss away with his knife. Then
they read the mutilated inscription: "Here lieth . . . Marie . . .
died . . ." And Miette, finding her own name on the stone, was quite
terror-stricken. Silvere called her a "big baby," but she could not
restrain her tears. She had received a stab in the heart, she said; she
would soon die, and that stone was meant for her. The young man himself
felt alarmed. However, he succeeded in shaming the child out of these
thoughts. What! she so courageous, to dream about such trifles! They
ended by laughing. Then they avoided speaking of it again. But in
melancholy moments, when the cloudy sky saddened the pathway, Miette
could not help thinking of that dead one, that unknown Marie, whose
tomb had so long facilitated their meetings. The poor girl's bones were
perhaps still lying there. And at this thought Miette one evening had a
strange whim, and asked Silvere to turn the stone over to see what might
be under it. He refused, as though it were sacrilege, and his refusal
strengthened Miette's fancies with regard to the dear phantom which bore
her name. She positively insisted that the girl had died young, as
she was, and in the very midst of her love. She even began to pity the
stone, that stone which she climbed so nimbly, and on which they had
sat so often, a stone which death had chilled, and which their love had
warmed again.

This is an atom: 
"You'll see, this tombstone will bring us misfortune," she added. "If
you were to die, I should come and lie here, and then I should like to
have this stone set over my body."

This is an atom: 
At this, Silvere, choking with emotion, scolded her for thinking of such
mournful things.

This is an atom: 
And so, for nearly two years, their love grew alike in the narrow
pathway and the open country. Their idyll passed through the chilling
rains of December and the burning solicitations of July, free from all
touch of impurity, ever retaining the sweet charm of some old Greek
love-tale, all the naive hesitancy of youth which desires but knows not.
In vain did the long-departed dead whisper in their ears. They carried
nothing away from the old cemetery but emotional melancholy and a vague
presentiment of a short life. A voice seemed to whisper to them that
they would depart amidst their virginal love, long ere the bridal day
would give them wholly to each other. It was there, on the tombstone and
among the bones that lay hidden beneath the rank grass, that they had
first come to indulge in that longing for death, that eager desire to
sleep together in the earth, that now set them stammering and sighing
beside the Orcheres road, on that December night, while the two bells
repeated their mournful warnings to one another.

This is an atom: 
Miette was sleeping calmly, with her head resting on Silvere's chest
while he mused upon their past meeting, their lovely years of unbroken
happiness. At daybreak the girl awoke. The valley now spread out clearly
under the bright sky. The sun was still behind the hills, but a stream
of crystal light, limpid and cold as spring-water, flowed from the
pale horizon. In the distance, the Viorne, like a white satin ribbon,
disappeared among an expanse of red and yellow land. It was a boundless
vista, with grey seas of olive-trees, and vineyards that looked like
huge pieces of striped cloth. The whole country was magnified by the
clearness of the atmosphere and the peaceful cold. However, sharp gusts
of wind chilled the young people's faces. And thereupon they sprang to
their feet, cheered by the sight of the clear morning. Their melancholy
forebodings had vanished with the darkness, and they gazed with delight
at the immense expanse of the plain, and listened to the tolling of the
two bells that now seemed to be joyfully ringing in a holiday.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! I've had a good sleep!" Miette cried. "I dreamt you were kissing
me. Tell me now, did you kiss me?"

This is an atom: 
"It's very possible," Silvere replied laughing. "I was not very warm. It
is bitterly cold."

This is an atom: 
"I only feel cold in the feet," Miette rejoined.

This is an atom: 
"Well! let us have a run," said Silvere. "We have still two good leagues
to go. You will get warm."

This is an atom: 
Thereupon they descended the hill and ran until they reached the high
road. When they were below they raised their heads as if to say farewell
to that rock on which they had wept while their kisses burned their
lips. But they did not again speak of that ardent embrace which had
thrilled them so strongly with vague, unknown desire. Under the pretext
of walking more quickly they did not even take each other's arm. They
experienced some slight confusion when they looked at one another,
though why they could not tell. Meantime the dawn was rising around
them. The young man, who had sometimes been sent to Orcheres by his
master, knew all the shortest cuts. Thus they walked on for more than
two leagues, along dingle paths by the side of interminable ledges and
walls. Now and again Miette accused Silvere of having taken her the
wrong way; for, at times--for a quarter of an hour at a stretch--they
lost all sight of the surrounding country, seeing above the walls and
hedges nothing but long rows of almond-trees whose slender branches
showed sharply against the pale sky.

This is an atom: 
All at once, however, they came out just in front of Orcheres. Loud
cries of joy, the shouting of a crowd, sounded clearly in the limpid
air. The insurrectionary forces were only now entering the town. Miette
and Silvere went in with the stragglers. Never had they seen such
enthusiasm. To judge from the streets, one would have thought it was a
procession day, when the windows are decked with the finest drapery to
honour the passage of the Canopy. The townsfolk welcomed the insurgents
as though they were deliverers. The men embraced them, while the women
brought them food. Old men were to be seen weeping at the doors. And the
joyousness was of an essentially Southern character, pouring forth in
clamorous fashion, in singing, dancing, and gesticulation. As Miette
passed along she was carried away by a _farandole_[*] which spread
whirling all round the Grand' Place. Silvere followed her. His thoughts
of death and his discouragement were now far away. He wanted to fight,
to sell his life dearly at least. The idea of a struggle intoxicated
him afresh. He dreamed of victory to be followed by a happy life with
Miette, amidst the peacefulness of the universal Republic.

This is an atom: 
[*] The _farandole_ is the popular dance of Provence.

This is an atom: 
The fraternal reception accorded them by the inhabitants of Orcheres
proved to be the insurgents' last delight. They spent the day amidst
radiant confidence and boundless hope. The prisoners, Commander
Sicardot, Messieurs Garconnet, Peirotte and the others, who had been
shut up in one of the rooms at the mayor's, the windows of which
overlooked the Grand' Place, watched the _farandoles_ and wild outbursts
of enthusiasm with surprise and dismay.

This is an atom: 
"The villains!" muttered the Commander, leaning upon a window-bar, as
though bending over the velvet-covered hand-rest of a box at a theatre:
"To think that there isn't a battery or two to make a clean sweep of all
that rabble!"

This is an atom: 
Then he perceived Miette, and addressing himself to Monsieur Garconnet,
he added: "Do you see, sir, that big girl in red over yonder? How
disgraceful! They've even brought their mistresses with them. If this
continues much longer we shall see some fine goings-on."

This is an atom: 
Monsieur Garconnet shook his head, saying something about "unbridled
passions," and "the most evil days of history." Monsieur Peirotte, as
white as a sheet, remained silent; he only opened his lips once, to say
to Sicardot, who was still bitterly railing: "Not so loud, sir; not so
loud! You will get us all massacred."

This is an atom: 
As a matter of fact, the insurgents treated the gentlemen with the
greatest kindness. They even provided them with an excellent dinner in
the evening. Such attentions, however, were terrifying to such a quaker
as the receiver of taxes; the insurgents he thought would not treat them
so well unless they wished to make them fat and tender for the day when
they might wish to devour them.

This is an atom: 
At dusk that day Silvere came face to face with his cousin, Doctor
Pascal. The latter had followed the band on foot, chatting with the
workmen who held him in the greatest respect. At first he had striven
to dissuade them from the struggle; and then, as if convinced by their
arguments, he had said to them with his kindly smile: "Well, perhaps you
are right, my friends; fight if you like, I shall be here to patch up
your arms and legs."

This is an atom: 
Then, in the morning he began to gather pebbles and plants along the
high road. He regretted that he had not brought his geologist's hammer
and botanical wallet with him. His pockets were now so full of stones
that they were almost bursting, while bundles of long herbs peered forth
from the surgeon's case which he carried under his arm.

This is an atom: 
"Hallo! You here, my lad?" he cried, as he perceived Silvere. "I thought
I was the only member of the family here."

This is an atom: 
He spoke these last words with a touch of irony, as if deriding the
intrigues of his father and his uncle Antoine. Silvere was very glad
to meet his cousin; the doctor was the only one of the Rougons who
ever shook hands with him in the street, and showed him any sincere
friendship. Seeing him, therefore, still covered with dust from the
march, the young man thought him gained over to the Republican cause,
and was much delighted thereat. He talked to the doctor, with youthful
magniloquence, of the people's rights, their holy cause, and their
certain triumph. Pascal smiled as he listened, and watched the youth's
gestures and the ardent play of his features with curiosity, as though
he were studying a patient, or analysing an enthusiasm, to ascertain
what might be at the bottom of it.

This is an atom: 
"How you run on! How you run on!" he finally exclaimed. "Ah! you are
your grandmother's true grandson." And, in a whisper, he added, like
some chemist taking notes: "Hysteria or enthusiasm, shameful madness
or sublime madness. It's always those terrible nerves!" Then, again
speaking aloud, as if summing up the matter, he said: "The family is
complete now. It will count a hero among its members."

This is an atom: 
Silvere did not hear him. He was still talking of his dear Republic.
Miette had dropped a few paces off; she was still wrapped in her large
red pelisse. She and Silvere had traversed the town arm-in-arm.
The sight of this tall red girl at last puzzled Pascal, and again
interrupting his cousin, he asked him: "Who is this child with you?"

This is an atom: 
"She is my wife," Silvere gravely answered.

This is an atom: 
The doctor opened his eyes wide, for he did not understand. He was very
shy with women; however, he raised his hat to Miette as he went away.

This is an atom: 
The night proved an anxious one. Forebodings of misfortune swept over
the insurgents. The enthusiasm and confidence of the previous evening
seemed to die away in the darkness. In the morning there were gloomy
faces; sad looks were exchanged, followed by discouraging silence.
Terrifying rumours were now circulating. Bad news, which the leaders
had managed to conceal the previous evening, had spread abroad, though
nobody in particular was known to have spoken. It was the work of
that invisible voice, which, with a word, throws a mob into a panic.
According to some reports Paris was subdued, and the provinces had
offered their hands and feet, eager to be bound. And it was added that
a large party of troops, which had left Marseilles under the command of
Colonel Masson and Monsieur de Bleriot, the prefect of the department,
was advancing by forced marches to disperse the insurrectionary bands.
This news came like a thunderbolt, at once awakening rage and despair.
These men, who on the previous evening had been all aglow with patriotic
fever, now shivered with cold, chilled to their hearts by the shameful
submissiveness of prostrate France. They alone, then, had had the
courage to do their duty! And now they were to be left to perish amidst
the general panic, the death-like silence of the country; they had
become mere rebels, who would be hunted down like wild beasts; they,
who had dreamed of a great war, of a whole nation in revolt, and of
the glorious conquest of the people's rights! Miserably baffled and
betrayed, this handful of men could but weep for their dead faith and
their vanished dreams of justice. There were some who, while taunting
France with her cowardice, flung away their arms, and sat down by the
roadside, declaring that they would there await the bullets of the
troops, and show how Republicans could die.

This is an atom: 
Although these men had nothing now but death or exile before them,
there were very few desertions from their ranks. A splendid feeling of
solidarity kept them together. Their indignation turned chiefly against
their leaders, who had really proved incapable. Irreparable mistakes
had been committed; and now the insurgents, without order or discipline,
barely protected by a few sentries, and under the command of irresolute
men, found themselves at the mercy of the first soldiers that might
arrive.

This is an atom: 
They spent two more days at Orcheres, Tuesday and Wednesday, thus losing
time and aggravating the situation. The general, the man with the sabre,
whom Silvere had pointed out to Miette on the Plassans road, vacillated
and hesitated under the terrible responsibility that weighed upon him.
On Thursday he came to the conclusion that the position of Orcheres
was a decidedly dangerous one; so towards one o'clock he gave orders to
march, and led his little army to the heights of Sainte-Roure. That was,
indeed, an impregnable position for any one who knew how to defend it.
The houses of Sainte-Roure rise in tiers along a hill-side; behind the
town all approach is shut off by enormous rocks, so that this kind of
citadel can only be reached by the Nores plain, which spreads out at the
foot of the plateau. An esplanade, converted into a public walk planted
with magnificent elms, overlooks the plain. It was on this esplanade
that the insurgents encamped. The hostages were imprisoned in the Hotel
de la Mule-Blanche, standing half-way along the promenade. The night
passed away heavy and black. The insurgents spoke of treachery. As soon
as it was morning, however, the man with the sabre, who had neglected to
take the simplest precautions, reviewed the troops. The contingents were
drawn up in line with their backs turned to the plain. They presented
a wonderful medley of costume, some wearing brown jackets, others
dark greatcoats, and others again blue blouses girded with red sashes.
Moreover, their arms were an equally odd collection: there were newly
sharpened scythes, large navvies' spades, and fowling-pieces with
burnished barrels glittering in the sunshine. And at the very moment
when the improvised general was riding past the little army, a sentry,
who had been forgotten in an olive-plantation, ran up gesticulating and
shouting:

This is an atom: 
"The soldiers! The soldiers!"

This is an atom: 
There was indescribable emotion. At first, they thought it a false
alarm. Forgetting all discipline, they rushed forward to the end of the
esplanade in order to see the soldiers. The ranks were broken, and as
the dark line of troops appeared, marching in perfect order with a long
glitter of bayonets, on the other side of the greyish curtain of olive
trees, there came a hasty and disorderly retreat, which sent a quiver of
panic to the other end of the plateau. Nevertheless, the contingents
of La Palud and Saint-Martin-de-Vaulx had again formed in line in
the middle of the promenade, and stood there erect and fierce. A
wood-cutter, who was a head taller than any of his companions, shouted,
as he waved his red neckerchief: "To arms, Chavanoz, Graille, Poujols,
Saint-Eutrope! To arms, Les Tulettes! To arms, Plassans!"

This is an atom: 
Crowds streamed across the esplanade. The man with the sabre, surrounded
by the folks from Faverolles, marched off with several of the country
contingents--Vernoux, Corbiere, Marsanne, and Pruinas--to outflank the
enemy and then attack him. Other contingents, from Valqueyras, Nazere,
Castel-le-Vieux, Les Roches-Noires, and Murdaran, dashed to the left,
scattering themselves in skirmishing parties over the Nores plain.

This is an atom: 
And meantime the men of the towns and villages that the wood-cutter had
called to his aid mustered together under the elms, there forming a dark
irregular mass, grouped without regard to any of the rules of strategy,
simply placed there like a rock, as it were, to bar the way or die. The
men of Plassans stood in the middle of this heroic battalion. I avail,
etc.

This is an atom: 
(Signed) LOU TSENG-TSIANG.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.

This is an atom: 
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this day's date respecting railways and taxes in South
Manchuria and Eastern Inner Mongolia in which you stated:
"China will hereafter provide funds for building necessary railways
in South Manchuria and Eastern Inner Mongolia; if foreign capital
is required China may negotiate for a loan with Japanese capitalists
first; and further, the Chinese Government, when making a loan in
future on the security of taxes in the above mentioned places
(excluding the salt and customs revenue which has already been
pledged by the Chinese Central Government) may negotiate for it
with Japanese capitalists first.

This is an atom: 
In reply I beg to state that I have taken note of the same.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.

This is an atom: 
EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE EMPLOYMENT OF ADVISERS IN SOUTH MANCHURIA

This is an atom: 
--Note--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the
Republic of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
In the name of the Chinese Government, I have the honour to make the
following declaration to your Government:--

This is an atom: 
"Hereafter, if foreign advisers or instructors on political, financial,
military or police matters are to be employed in South Manchuria,
Japanese may be employed first."
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) LOU TSENG-TSIANG.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.

This is an atom: 
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of
this day's date in which you made the following declaration in the name
of your Government:--
"Hereafter if foreign advisers or instructors in political, financial,
military or police matters are to be employed in South Manchuria, Japanese
may be employed first."
In reply, I beg to state that I have taken note of the same.
I avail, etc., 
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.
Hia Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE EXPLANATION OF "LEASE BY NEGOTIATION"
IN SOUTH MANCHURIA 
--Note--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of
Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to state that the term lease by negotiation
contained in Article 2 of the Treaty respecting South Manchuria and
Eastern Inner Mongolia signed this day shall be understood to imply
a long-term lease of not more than thirty years and also the
possibility of its unconditional renewal.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic
of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this day's date in which you state.Every now and then,
athwart the fierce crackling of the fusillade, the young man heard a
sigh or a low rattle, and a rush was made among the band as if to make
room for some poor wretch clutching hold of his neighbours as he fell.
The firing lasted ten minutes.

This is an atom: 
Then, between two volleys some one exclaimed in a voice of terror:
"Every man for himself! _Sauve qui peut!_" This roused shouts and
murmurs of rage, as if to say, "The cowards! Oh! the cowards!" sinister
rumours were spreading--the general had fled; cavalry were sabring the
skirmishers in the Nores plain. However, the irregular firing did not
cease, every now and again sudden bursts of flame sped through the
clouds of smoke. A gruff voice, the voice of terror, shouted yet louder:
"Every man for himself! _Sauve qui peut!_" Some men took to flight,
throwing down their weapons and leaping over the dead. The others closed
their ranks. At last there were only some ten insurgents left. Two more
took to flight, and of the remaining eight three were killed at one
discharge.

This is an atom: 
The two children had remained there mechanically without understanding
anything. As the battalion diminished in numbers, Miette raised the
banner still higher in the air; she held it in front of her with
clenched fists as if it were a huge taper. It was completely riddled
by bullets. When Silvere had no more cartridges left in his pocket, he
ceased firing, and gazed at the carbine with an air of stupor. It was
then that a shadow passed over his face, as though the flapping wings
of some colossal bird had brushed against his forehead. And raising his
eyes he saw the banner fall from Miette's grasp. The child, her hands
clasped to her breast, her head thrown back with an expression of
excruciating suffering, was staggering to the ground. She did not utter
a single cry, but sank at last upon the red banner.

This is an atom: 
"Get up; come quickly," Silvere said, in despair, as he held out his
hand to her.

This is an atom: 
But she lay upon the ground without uttering a word, her eyes wide open.
Then he understood, and fell on his knees beside her.

This is an atom: 
"You are wounded, eh? tell me? Where are you wounded?"

This is an atom: 
She still spoke no word; she was stifling, and gazing at him out of her
large eyes, while short quivers shook her frame. Then he pulled away her
hands.

This is an atom: 
"It's there, isn't it? it's there."

This is an atom: 
And he tore open her bodice, and laid her bosom bare. He searched, but
saw nothing. His eyes were brimming with tears. At last under the left
breast he perceived a small pink hole; a single drop of blood stained
the wound.

This is an atom: 
"It's nothing," he whispered; "I'll go and find Pascal, he'll put you
all right again. If you could only get up. Can't you move?"

This is an atom: 
The soldiers were not firing now; they had dashed to the left in pursuit
of the contingents led away by the man with the sabre. And in the centre
of the esplanade there only remained Silvere kneeling beside Miette's
body. With the stubbornness of despair, he had taken her in his arms. He
wanted to set her on her feet, but such a quiver of pain came upon the
girl that he laid her down again, and said to her entreatingly: "Speak
to me, pray. Why don't you say something to me?"

This is an atom: 
She could not; she slowly, gently shook her hand, as if to say that
it was not her fault. Her close-pressed lips were already contracting
beneath the touch of death. With her unbound hair streaming around her,
and her head resting amid the folds of the blood-red banner, all her
life now centred in her eyes, those black eyes glittering in her white
face. Silvere sobbed. The glance of those big sorrowful eyes filled him
with distress. He read in them bitter, immense regret for life. Miette
was telling him that she was going away all alone, and before their
bridal day; that she was leaving him ere she had become his wife. She
was telling him, too, that it was he who had willed that it should
be so, that he should have loved her as other lovers love their
sweethearts. In the hour of her agony, amidst that stern conflict
between death and her vigorous nature, she bewailed her fate in going
like that to the grave. Silvere, as he bent over her, understood how
bitter was the pang. He recalled their caresses, how she had hung round
his neck, and had yearned for his love, but he had not understood, and
now she was departing from him for evermore. Bitterly grieved at the
thought that throughout her eternal rest she would remember him solely
as a companion and playfellow, he kissed her on the bosom while his hot
tears fell upon her lips. Those passionate kisses brought a last gleam
of joy to Miette's eyes. They loved one another, and their idyll ended
in death.

This is an atom: 
But Silvere could not believe she was dying. "No, you will see, it will
prove only a trifle," he declared. "Don't speak if it hurts you. Wait, I
will raise your head and then warm you; your hands are quite frozen."

This is an atom: 
But the fusillade had begun afresh, this time on the left, in the olive
plantations. A dull sound of galloping cavalry rose from the plain.
At times there were loud cries, as of men being slaughtered. And
thick clouds of smoke were wafted along and hung about the elms on the
esplanade. Silvere for his part no longer heard or saw anything. Pascal,
who came running down in the direction of the plain, saw him stretched
upon the ground, and hastened towards him, thinking he was wounded. As
soon as the young man saw him, he clutched hold of him and pointed to
Miette.

This is an atom: 
"Look," he said, "she's wounded, there, under the breast. Ah! how good
of you to come! You will save her."

This is an atom: 
At that moment, however, a slight convulsion shook the dying girl. A
pain-fraught shadow passed over her face, and as her contracted lips
suddenly parted, a faint sigh escaped from them. Her eyes, still wide
open, gazed fixedly at the young man.

This is an atom: 
Then Pascal, who had stooped down, rose again, saying in a low voice:
"She is dead."

This is an atom: 
Dead! Silvere reeled at the sound of the word. He had been kneeling
forward, but now he sank back, as though thrown down by Miette's last
faint sigh.

This is an atom: 
"Dead! Dead!" he repeated; "it is not true, she is looking at me. See
how she is looking at me!"

This is an atom: 
Then he caught the doctor by the coat, entreating him to remain there,
assuring him that he was mistaken, that she was not dead, and that he
could save her if he only would. Pascal resisted gently, saying, in his
kindly voice: "I can do nothing for her, others are waiting for me. Let
go, my poor child; she is quite dead."

This is an atom: 
At last Silvere released his hold and again fell back. Dead! Dead! Still
that word, which rang like a knell in his dazed brain! When he was alone
he crept up close to the corpse. Miette still seemed to be looking
at him. He threw himself upon her, laid his head upon her bosom, and
watered it with his tears. He was beside himself with grief. He pressed
his lips wildly to her, and breathed out all his passion, all his soul,
in one long kiss, as though in the hope that it might bring her to life
again. But the girl was turning cold in spite of his caresses. He felt
her lifeless and nerveless beneath his touch. Then he was seized with
terror, and with haggard face and listless hanging arms he remained
crouching in a state of stupor, and repeating: "She is dead, yet she is
looking at me; she does not close her eyes, she sees me still."

This is an atom: 
This fancy was very sweet to him. He remained there perfectly still,
exchanging a long look with Miette, in whose glance, deepened by death,
he still seemed to read the girl's lament for her sad fate.

This is an atom: 
In the meantime, the cavalry were still sabring the fugitives over the
Nores plain; the cries of the wounded and the galloping of the horses
became more distant, softening like music wafted from afar through the
clear air. Silvere was no longer conscious of the fighting. He did
not even see his cousin, who mounted the slope again and crossed the
promenade. Pascal, as he passed along, picked up Macquart's carbine
which Silvere had thrown down; he knew it, as he had seen it hanging
over aunt Dide's chimney-piece, and he thought he might as well save it
from the hands of the victors. He had scarcely entered the Hotel de la
Mule-Blanche, whither a large number of the wounded had been taken, when
a band of insurgents, chased by the soldiers like a herd of cattle, once
more rushed into the esplanade. The man with the sabre had fled; it was
the last contingents from the country who were being exterminated. There
was a terrible massacre. In vain did Colonel Masson and the prefect,
Monsieur de Bleriot, overcome by pity, order a retreat. The infuriated
soldiers continued firing upon the mass, and pinning isolated fugitives
to the walls with their bayonets. When they had no more enemies before
them, they riddled the facade of the Mule-Blanche with bullets. The
shutters flew into splinters; one window which had been left half-open
was torn out, and there was a loud rattle of broken glass. Pitiful
voices were crying out from within; "The prisoners! The prisoners!" But
the troops did not hear; they continued firing. All at once Commander
Sicardot, growing exasperated, appeared at the door, waved his arms, and
endeavoured to speak. Monsieur Peirotte, the receiver of taxes, with his
slim figure and scared face, stood by his side. However, another volley
was fired, and Monsieur Peirotte fell face foremost, with a heavy thud,
to the ground.

This is an atom: 
Silvere and Miette were still looking at each other. Silvere had
remained by the corpse, through all the fusillade and the howls of
agony, without even turning his head. He was only conscious of the
presence of some men around him, and, from a feeling of modesty, he drew
the red banner over Miette's breast. Then their eyes still continued to
gaze at one another.

This is an atom: 
The conflict, however, was at an end. The death of the receiver of
taxes had satiated the soldiers. Some of these ran about, scouring every
corner of the esplanade, to prevent the escape of a single insurgent.
A gendarme who perceived Silvere under the trees, ran up to him, and
seeing that it was a lad he had to deal with, called: "What are you
doing there, youngster?"

This is an atom: 
Silvere, whose eyes were still fixed on those of Miette, made no reply.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! the bandit, his hands are black with powder," the gendarme
exclaimed, as he stooped down. "Come, get up, you scoundrel! You know
what you've got to expect."

This is an atom: 
Then, as Silvere only smiled vaguely and did not move, the other looked
more attentively, and saw that the corpse swathed in the banner was that
of a girl.

This is an atom: 
"A fine girl; what a pity!" he muttered. "Your mistress, eh? you
rascal!"

This is an atom: 
Then he made a violent grab at Silvere, and setting him on his feet led
him away like a dog that is dragged by one leg. Silvere submitted in
silence, as quietly as a child. He just turned round to give another
glance at Miette. He felt distressed at thus leaving her alone under the
trees. For the last time he looked at her from afar. She was still lying
there in all her purity, wrapped in the red banner, her head slightly
raised, and her big eyes turned upward towards heaven.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER VI

This is an atom: 
It was about five o'clock in the morning when Rougon at last ventured to
leave his mother's house. The old woman had gone to sleep on a chair. He
crept stealthily to the end of the Impasse Saint-Mittre. There was not a
sound, not a shadow. He pushed on as far as the Porte de Rome. The gates
stood wide open in the darkness that enveloped the slumbering town.
Plassans was sleeping as sound as a top, quite unconscious, apparently,
of the risk it was running in allowing the gates to remain unsecured.
It seemed like a city of the dead. Rougon, taking courage, made his way
into the Rue de Nice. He scanned from a distance the corners of each
successive lane; and trembled at every door, fearing lest he should see
a band of insurgents rush out upon him. However, he reached the Cours
Sauvaire without any mishap. The insurgents seemed to have vanished in
the darkness like a nightmare.

This is an atom: 
Pierre then paused for a moment on the deserted pavement, heaving a
deep sigh of relief and triumph. So those rascals had really abandoned
Plassans to him. The town belonged to him now; it slept like the foolish
thing it was; there it lay, dark and tranquil, silent and confident, and
he had only to stretch out his hand to take possession of it. That
brief halt, the supercilious glance which he cast over the drowsy place,
thrilled him with unspeakable delight. He remained there, alone in the
darkness, and crossed his arms, in the attitude of a great general on
the eve of a victory. He could hear nothing in the distance but the
murmur of the fountains of the Cours Sauvaire, whose jets of water fell
into the basins with a musical plashing.

This is an atom: 
Then he began to feel a little uneasy. What if the Empire should
unhappily have been established without his aid? What if Sicardot,
Garconnet, and Peirotte, instead of being arrested and led away by
the insurrectionary band, had shut the rebels up in prison? A cold
perspiration broke out over him, and he went on his way again, hoping
that Felicite would give him some accurate information. He now pushed on
more rapidly, and was skirting the houses of the Rue de la Banne, when a
strange spectacle, which caught his eyes as he raised his head, riveted
him to the ground. One of the windows of the yellow drawing-room was
brilliantly illuminated, and, in the glare, he saw a dark form, which he
recognized as that of his wife, bending forward, and shaking its arms in
a violent manner. He asked himself what this could mean, but, unable to
think of any explanation, was beginning to feel seriously alarmed, when
some hard object bounded over the pavement at his feet. Felicite had
thrown him the key of the cart-house, where he had concealed a supply
of muskets. This key clearly signified that he must take up arms. So he
turned away again, unable to comprehend why his wife had prevented him
from going upstairs, and imagining the most horrible things.

This is an atom: 
He now went straight to Roudier, whom he found dressed and ready to
march, but completely ignorant of the events of the night. Roudier lived
at the far end of the new town, as in a desert, whither no tidings of
the insurgents' movements had penetrated. Pierre, however, proposed
to him that they should go to Granoux, whose house stood on one of
the corners of the Place des Recollets, and under whose windows the
insurgent contingents must have passed. The municipal councillor's
servant remained for a long time parleying before consenting to admit
them, and they heard poor Granoux calling from the first floor in a
trembling voice:

This is an atom: 
"Don't open the door, Catherine! The streets are full of bandits."

This is an atom: 
He was in his bedroom, in the dark. When he recognised his two faithful
friends he felt relieved; but he would not let the maid bring a lamp,
fearing lest the light might attract a bullet. He seemed to think that
the town was still full of insurgents. Lying back on an arm-chair near
the window, in his pants, and with a silk handkerchief round his head,
he moaned: "Ah! my friends, if you only knew!--I tried to go to bed, but
they were making such a disturbance! At last I lay down in my arm-chair
here. I've seen it all, everything. Such awful-looking men; a band of
escaped convicts! Then they passed by again, dragging brave Commander
Sicardot, worthy Monsieur Garconnet, the postmaster, and others away
with them, and howling the while like cannibals!"

This is an atom: 
Rougon felt a thrill of joy. He made Granoux repeat to him how he had
seen the mayor and the others surrounded by the "brigands."

This is an atom: 
"I saw it all!" the poor man wailed. "I was standing behind the blind.
They had just seized Monsieur Peirotte, and I heard him saying as he
passed under my window: 'Gentlemen, don't hurt me!' They were certainly
maltreating him. It's abominable, abominable."

This is an atom: 
However, Roudier calmed Granoux by assuring him that the town was free.
And the worthy gentleman began to feel quite a glow of martial ardour
when Pierre informed him that he had come to recruit his services for
the purpose of saving Plassans. These three saviours then took council
together. They each resolved to go and rouse their friends, and appoint
a meeting at the cart-shed, the secret arsenal of the reactionary
party. Meantime Rougon constantly bethought himself of Felicite's wild
gestures, which seemed to betoken danger somewhere. Granoux, assuredly
the most foolish of the three, was the first to suggest that there must
be some Republicans left in the town. This proved a flash of light,
and Rougon, with a feeling of conviction, reflected: "There must be
something of Macquart's doing under all this."

This is an atom: 
An hour or so later the friends met again in the cart-shed, which was
situated in a very lonely spot. They had glided stealthily from door to
door, knocking and ringing as quietly as possible, and picking up all
the men they could. However, they had only succeeded in collecting some
forty, who arrived one after the other, creeping along in the dark, with
the pale and drowsy countenances of men who had been violently startled
from their sleep. The cart-shed, let to a cooper, was littered with old
hoops and broken casks, of which there were piles in every corner. The
guns were stored in the middle, in three long boxes. A taper, stuck on
a piece of wood, illumined the strange scene with a flickering glimmer.
When Rougon had removed the covers of the three boxes, the spectacle
became weirdly grotesque. Above the fire-arms, whose barrels shown with
a bluish, phosphorescent glitter, were outstretched necks and heads that
bent with a sort of secret fear, while the yellow light of the taper
cast shadows of huge noses and locks of stiffened hair upon the walls.

This is an atom: 
However, the reactionary forces counted their numbers, and the smallness
of the total filled them with hesitation. They were only thirty-nine all
told, and this adventure would mean certain death for them. A father
of a family spoke of his children; others, without troubling themselves
about excuses, turned towards the door. Then, however, two fresh
conspirators arrived, who lived in the neighbourhood of the Town
Hall, and knew for certain that there were not more than about twenty
Republicans still at the mayor's. The band thereupon deliberated afresh.
Forty-one against twenty--these seemed practicable conditions. So the
arms were distributed amid a little trembling. It was Rougon who took
them from the boxes, and each man present, as he received his gun, the
barrel of which on that December night was icy cold, felt a sudden chill
freeze him to his bones. The shadows on the walls assumed the clumsy
postures of bewildered conscripts stretching out their fingers. Pierre
closed the boxes regretfully; he left there a hundred and nine guns
which he would willingly have distributed; however, he now had to divide
the cartridges. Of these, there were two large barrels full in the
furthest corner of the cart-shed, sufficient to defend Plassans against
an army. And as this corner was dark, one of the gentlemen brought the
taper near, whereupon another conspirator--a burly pork-butcher, with
immense fists--grew angry, declaring that it was most imprudent to bring
a light so close. They strongly approved his words, so the cartridges
were distributed in the dark. They completely filled their pockets with
them. Then, after they had loaded their guns, with endless precautions,
they lingered there for another moment, looking at each other with
suspicious eyes, or exchanging glances in which cowardly ferocity was
mingled with an expression of stupidity.

This is an atom: 
In the streets they kept close to the houses, marching silently and
in single file, like savages on the war-path. Rougon had insisted upon
having the honour of marching at their head; the time had come when he
must needs run some risk, if he wanted to see his schemes successful.
Drops of perspiration poured down his forehead in spite of the cold.
Nevertheless he preserved a very martial bearing. Roudier and Granoux
were immediately behind him. Upon two occasions the column came to an
abrupt halt. They fancied they had heard some distant sound of fighting;
but it was only the jingle of the little brass shaving-dishes hanging
from chains, which are used as signs by the barbers of Southern France.
These dishes were gently shaking to and fro in the breeze. After each
halt, the saviours of Plassans continued their stealthy march in the
dark, retaining the while the mien of terrified heroes. In this manner
they reached the square in front of the Town Hall. There they formed a
group round Rougon, and took counsel together once more. In the facade
of the building in front of them only one window was lighted. It was now
nearly seven o'clock and the dawn was approaching.

This is an atom: 
After a good ten minutes' discussion, it was decided to advance as
far as the door, so as to ascertain what might be the meaning of this
disquieting darkness and silence. The door proved to be half open. One
of the conspirators thereupon popped his head in, but quickly withdrew
it, announcing that there was a man under the porch, sitting against the
wall fast asleep, with a gun between his legs. Rougon, seeing a chance
of commencing with a deed of valour, thereupon entered first, and,
seizing the man, held him down while Roudier gagged him. This first
triumph, gained in silence, singularly emboldened the little troop, who
had dreamed of a murderous fusillade. And Rougon had to make imperious
signs to restrain his soldiers from indulging in over-boisterous
delight.

This is an atom: 
They continued their advance on tip-toes. Then, on the left, in the
police guard-room, which was situated there, they perceived some fifteen
men lying on camp-beds and snoring, amid the dim glimmer of a lantern
hanging from the wall. Rougon, who was decidedly becoming a great
general, left half of his men in front of the guard-room with orders not
to rouse the sleepers, but to watch them and make them prisoners if they
stirred. He was personally uneasy about the lighted window which they
had seen from the square. He still scented Macquart's hand in the
business, and, as he felt that he would first have to make prisoners of
those who were watching upstairs, he was not sorry to be able to adopt
surprise tactics before the noise of a conflict should impel them to
barricade themselves in the first-floor rooms. So he went up quietly,
followed by the twenty heroes whom he still had at his disposal. Roudier
commanded the detachment remaining in the courtyard.

This is an atom: 
As Rougon had surmised, it was Macquart who was comfortably installed
upstairs in the mayor's office. He sat in the mayor's arm-chair,
with his elbows on the mayor's writing-table. With the characteristic
confidence of a man of coarse intellect, who is absorbed by a fixed idea
and bent upon his own triumph, he had imagined after the departure of
the insurgents that Plassans was now at his complete disposal, and that
he would be able to act there like a conqueror. In his opinion that
body of three thousand men who had just passed through the town was
an invincible army, whose mere proximity would suffice to keep the
bourgeois humble and docile in his hands. The insurgents had imprisoned
the gendarmes in their barracks, the National Guard was already
dismembered, the nobility must be quaking with terror, and the retired
citizens of the new town had certainly never handled a gun in their
lives. Moreover, there were no arms any more than there were soldiers.
Thus Macquart did not even take the precaution to have the gates shut.
His men carried their confidence still further by falling asleep, while
he calmly awaited the dawn which he fancied would attract and rally all
the Republicans of the district round him.

This is an atom: 
He was already meditating important revolutionary measures; the
nomination of a Commune of which he would be the chief, the imprisonment
of all bad patriots, and particularly of all such persons as had
incurred his displeasure. The thought of the baffled Rougons and their
yellow drawing-room, of all that clique entreating him for mercy,
thrilled him with exquisite pleasure. In order to while away the time he
resolved to issue a proclamation to the inhabitants of Plassans. Four
of his party set to work to draw up this proclamation, and when it was
finished Macquart, assuming a dignified manner in the mayor's arm-chair,
had it read to him before sending it to the printing office of the
"Independant," on whose patriotism he reckoned. One of the writers was
commencing, in an emphatic voice, "Inhabitants of Plassans, the hour
of independence has struck, the reign of justice has begun----" when a
noise was heard at the door of the office, which was slowly pushed open.

This is an atom: 
"Is it you, Cassoute?" Macquart asked, interrupting the perusal.

This is an atom: 
Nobody answered; but the door opened wider.

This is an atom: 
"Come in, do!" he continued, impatiently. "Is my brigand of a brother at
home?"

This is an atom: 
Then, all at once both leaves of the door were violently thrown back
and slammed against the walls, and a crowd of armed men, in the midst of
whom marched Rougon, with his face very red and his eyes starting out
of their sockets, swarmed into the office, brandishing their guns like
cudgels.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! the blackguards, they're armed!" shouted Macquart.

This is an atom: 
He was about to seize a pair of pistols which were lying on the
writing-table, when five men caught hold of him by the throat and held
him in check. The four authors of the proclamation struggled for an
instant. There was a good deal of scuffling and stamping, and a noise
of persons falling. The combatants were greatly hampered by their guns,
which they would not lay aside, although they could not use them. In the
struggle, Rougon's weapon, which an insurgent had tried to wrest from
him, went off of itself with a frightful report, and filled the room
with smoke. The bullet shattered a magnificent mirror that reached from
the mantelpiece to the ceiling, and was reputed to be one of the
finest mirrors in the town. This shot, fired no one knew why, deafened
everybody, and put an end to the battle.

This is an atom: 
Then, while the gentlemen were panting and puffing, three other reports
were heard in the courtyard. Granoux immediately rushed to one of the
windows. And as he and the others anxiously leaned out, their faces
lengthened perceptibly, for they were in nowise eager for a struggle
with the men in the guard-room, whom they had forgotten amidst their
triumph. However, Roudier cried out from below that all was right. And
Granoux then shut the window again, beaming with joy. The fact of
the matter was, that Rougon's shot had aroused the sleepers, who had
promptly surrendered, seeing that resistance was impossible. Then,
however, three of Roudier's men, in their blind haste to get the
business over, had discharged their firearms in the air, as a sort of
answer to the report from above, without knowing quite why they did so.
It frequently happens that guns go off of their own accord when they are
in the hands of cowards.

This is an atom: 
And now, in the room upstairs, Rougon ordered Macquart's hands to be
bound with the bands of the large green curtains which hung at the
windows. When in future, more advantageous terms than those in existing
railway loan agreements are granted to foreign financiers in connection
with railway loans, the above agreement shall again be revised in
accordance with Japan's wishes.

This is an atom: 
Art. 8. All existing treaties between China and Japan relating to
Manchuria shall, except where otherwise provided for by this Treaty,
remain in force.

This is an atom: 
Art. 9. The present Treaty shall come into force on the date of its
signature.

This is an atom: 
The present Treaty shall be ratified by His Excellency the President
of the Republic of China and His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, and
the ratifications thereof shall be exchanged at Tokio as soon as
possible.

This is an atom: 
In witness whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries of the two High
Contracting Parties have signed and sealed the present Treaty, two copies
in the Chinese language and two in Japanese.

This is an atom: 
Done at Peking this twenty-fifth day of the fifth month of the fourth year
of the Republic of China, corresponding to the same day of the same month
of the fourth year of Taisho.

This is an atom: 
EXCHANGE OF NOTES
Respecting the Terms of Lease of Port Arthur and Dalny and the Terms
of South Manchurian and Antung-Mukden Railways.

This is an atom: 
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic of
China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to state that, respecting the provisions contained in
Article 1 of the Treaty relating to South Manchuria and Eastern
Inner Mongolia, signed this day, the term of lease of Port Arthur
and Dalny shall expire in the 86th year of the Republic or 1997.

This is an atom: 
The date for restoring the South Manchuria Railway to China shall fall
due in the 9lst year of the Republic or 2002. Article 12 in the
original South Manchurian Railway Agreement providing that it may
be redeemed by China after 36 years from the day on which the traffic
is opened is hereby cancelled.

This is an atom: 
The term of the Antung-Mukden Railway shall expire in the 96th year
of the Republic or 2007.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) Lou TSENG-TSIANG.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Hioki Eki,
Japanese Minister.

This is an atom: 
--Reply--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of
Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note
of this day's date, in which you stated that respecting the provisions
contained in Article 1 of the Treaty relating to South Manchuria and
Eastern Inner Mongolia, signed this day, the term of lease of Port Arthur
and Dalny shall expire in the 86th year of the Republic or 1997. The date
for restoring the South Manchurian Railway to China shall fall due
in the 91st year of the Republic or 2002. Article 12 in the original
South Manchurian Railway Agreement providing that it may be redeemed
by China after 36 years from the day on which the traffic is opened, is
hereby cancelled. The term of the Antung-Mukden Railway shall expire
in the 96th year of the Republic or 2007.

This is an atom: 
In reply I beg to state that I have taken note of the same.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.

This is an atom: 
EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE OPENING OF PORTS IN EASTERN INNER
MONGOLIA
--Note--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the
Republic of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to state that the places which ought to be opened as
Commercial Ports by China herself, as provided in Article 6 of the
Treaty respecting South Manchuria and Eastern Inner Mongolia signed
this day, will be selected, and the regulations therefor, will be
drawn up, by the Chinese Government itself, a decision concerning
which will be made after consulting the Minister of Japan.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) LOU TSENG-TSIANG.
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.
--Reply--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of
Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this day's date in which you stated "that the places which
ought to be opened as Commercial Ports by China herself, as provided
in Article 6 of the Treaty respecting South Manchuria and Eastern
Inner Mongolia signed this day, will be selected, and the regulations
therefor, will be drawn up, by the Chinese Government itself, a
decision concerning which will be made after consulting the Minister
of Japan."
In reply, I beg to state that I have taken note of the same.
I avail, etc., 
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
SOUTH MANCHURIA
--Note--Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of
the Republic of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to state that Japanese subjects shall, as soon
as possible, investigate and select mines in the mining areas in
South Manchuria specified hereinunder, except those being prospected
for or worked, and the Chinese Government will then permit them to
prospect or work the same; but before the Mining regulations are
definitely settled, the practice at present in force shall be
followed.Daylight was coming on apace, the town would soon be awake,
and it was necessary to take some decisive step. Roudier declared that,
before anything else, it would be advisable to issue a proclamation to
the inhabitants. Pierre was, at that moment, reading the one which the
insurgents had left upon the table.

This is an atom: 
"Why," cried he, "this will suit us admirably! There are only a few
words to be altered."

This is an atom: 
And, in fact, a quarter of an hour sufficed for the necessary changes,
after which Granoux read out, in an earnest voice: "Inhabitants of
Plassans--The hour of resistance has struck, the reign of order has
returned----"

This is an atom: 
It was decided that the proclamation should be printed at the office of
the "Gazette," and posted at all the street corners.

This is an atom: 
"Now listen," said Rougon; "we'll go to my house; and in the meantime
Monsieur Granoux will assemble here the members of the municipal council
who had not been arrested and acquaint them with the terrible events of
the night." Then he added, majestically: "I am quite prepared to accept
the responsibility of my actions. If what I have already done appears a
satisfactory pledge of my desire for order, I am willing to place myself
at the head of a municipal commission, until such time as the regular
authorities can be reinstated. But, in order, that nobody may accuse me
of ambitious designs, I shall not re-enter the Town Hall unless called
upon to do so by my fellow-citizens."

This is an atom: 
At this Granoux and Roudier protested that Plassans would not be
ungrateful. Their friend had indeed saved the town. And they recalled
all that he had done for the cause of order: the yellow drawing-room
always open to the friends of authority, his services as spokesman in
the three quarters of the town, the store of arms which had been his
idea, and especially that memorable night--that night of prudence and
heroism--in which he had rendered himself forever illustrious. Granoux
added that he felt sure of the admiration and gratitude of the municipal
councillors.

This is an atom: 
"Don't stir from your house," he concluded; "I will come and fetch you
to lead you back in triumph."

This is an atom: 
Then Roudier said that he quite understood the tact and modesty of their
friend, and approved it. Nobody would think of accusing him of ambition,
but all would appreciate the delicacy which prompted him to take no
office save with the consent of his fellow-citizens. That was very
dignified, very noble, altogether grand.

This is an atom: 
Under this shower of eulogies, Rougon humbly bowed his head. "No, no;
you go too far," he murmured, with voluptuous thrillings of exquisite
pleasure. Each sentence that fell from the retired hosier and the old
almond-merchant, who stood on his right and left respectively, fell
sweetly on his ears; and, leaning back in the mayor's arm-chair, steeped
in the odour of officiality which pervaded the room, he bowed to the
right and to the left, like a royal pretender whom a _coup d'etat_ is
about to convert into an emperor.

This is an atom: 
When they were tired of belauding each other, they all three went
downstairs. Granoux started off to call the municipal council together,
while Roudier told Rougon to go on in front, saying that he would join
him at his house, after giving the necessary orders for guarding the
Town Hall. The dawn was now fast rising, and Pierre proceeded to the Rue
de la Banne, tapping his heels in a martial manner on the still deserted
pavement. He carried his hat in his hand in spite of the bitter cold;
for puffs of pride sent all his blood to his head.

This is an atom: 
On reaching his house he found Cassoute at the bottom of the stairs. The
navvy had not stirred, for he had seen nobody enter. He sat there, on
the first step, resting his big head in his hands, and gazing fixedly in
front of him, with the vacant stare and mute stubbornness of a faithful
dog.

This is an atom: 
"You were waiting for me, weren't you?" Pierre said to him, taking in
the situation at a glance. "Well, go and tell Monsieur Macquart that
I've come home. Go and ask for him at the Town Hall."

This is an atom: 
Cassoute rose and took himself off, with an awkward bow. He was going
to get himself arrested like a lamb, to the great delight of Pierre,
who laughed as he went upstairs, asking himself, with a feeling of vague
surprise: "I have certainly plenty of courage; shall I turn out as good
a diplomatist?"

This is an atom: 
Felicite had not gone to bed last night. He found her dressed in her
Sunday clothes, wearing a cap with lemon-coloured ribbons, like a lady
expecting visitors. She had sat at the window in vain; she had heard
nothing, and was dying with curiosity.

This is an atom: 
"Well?" she asked, rushing to meet her husband.

This is an atom: 
The latter, quite out of breath, entered the yellow drawing-room,
whither she followed him, carefully closing the door behind her. He sank
into an arm-chair, and, in a gasping voice, faltered: "It's done; we
shall get the receivership."

This is an atom: 
At this she fell on his neck and kissed him.

This is an atom: 
"Really? Really?" she cried. "But I haven't heard anything. Oh, my
darling husband, do tell me; tell me all!"

This is an atom: 
She felt fifteen years old again, and began to coax him and whirl round
him like a grasshopper fascinated by the light and heat. And Pierre,
in the effusion of his triumph, poured out his heart to her. He did not
omit a single detail. He even explained his future projects, forgetting
that, according to his theories, wives were good for nothing, and that
his must be kept in complete ignorance of what went on if he wished to
remain master. Felicite leant over him and drank in his words. She made
him repeat certain parts of his story, declaring she had not heard; in
fact, her delight bewildered her so much that at times she seemed quite
deaf. When Pierre related the events at the Town Hall, she burst into a
fit of laughter, changed her chair three times, and moved the furniture
about, quite unable to sit still. After forty years of continuous
struggle, fortune had at last yielded to them. Eventually she became so
mad over it that she forgot all prudence.

This is an atom: 
"It's to me you owe all this!" she exclaimed, in an outburst of triumph.
"If I hadn't looked after you, you would have been nicely taken in by
the insurgents. You booby, it was Garconnet, Sicardot, and the others,
that had got to be thrown to those wild beasts."

This is an atom: 
Then, showing her teeth, loosened by age, she added, with a girlish
smile: "Well, the Republic for ever! It has made our path clear."

This is an atom: 
But Pierre had turned cross. "That's just like you!" he muttered; "you
always fancy that you've foreseen everything. It was I who had the idea
of hiding myself. As though women understood anything about politics!
Bah, my poor girl, if you were to steer the bark we should very soon be
shipwrecked."

This is an atom: 
Felicite bit her lip. She had gone too far and forgotten her
self-assigned part of good, silent fairy. Then she was seized with one
of those fits of covert exasperation, which she generally experienced
when her husband tried to crush her with his superiority. And she again
promised herself, when the right time should arrive, some exquisite
revenge, which would deliver this man into her power, bound hand and
foot.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! I was forgetting!" resumed Rougon, "Monsieur Peirotte is amongst
them. Granoux saw him struggling in the hands of the insurgents."

This is an atom: 
Felicite gave a start. She was just at that moment standing at the
window, gazing with longing eyes at the house where the receiver of
taxes lived. She had felt a desire to do so, for in her mind the idea of
triumph was always associated with envy of that fine house.

This is an atom: 
"So Monsieur Peirotte is arrested!" she exclaimed in a strange tone as
she turned round.

This is an atom: 
For an instant she smiled complacently; then a crimson blush rushed
to her face. A murderous wish had just ascended from the depths of her
being. "Ah! if the insurgents would only kill him!"

This is an atom: 
Pierre no doubt read her thoughts in her eyes.

This is an atom: 
"Well, if some ball were to hit him," he muttered, "our business would
be settled. There would be no necessity to supercede him, eh? and it
would be no fault of ours."

This is an atom: 
But Felicite shuddered. She felt that she had just condemned a man to
death. If Monsieur Peirotte should now be killed, she would always
see his ghost at night time. He would come and haunt her. So she only
ventured to cast furtive glances, full of fearful delight, at the
unhappy man's windows. Henceforward all her enjoyment would be fraught
with a touch of guilty terror.

This is an atom: 
Moreover, Pierre, having now poured out his soul, began to perceive the
other side of the situation. He mentioned Macquart. How could they
get rid of that blackguard? But Felicite, again fired with enthusiasm,
exclaimed: "Oh! one can't do everything at once. We'll gag him, somehow.
We'll soon find some means or other."

This is an atom: 
She was now walking to and fro, putting the arm-chairs in order, and
dusting their backs. Suddenly, she stopped in the middle of the room,
and gave the faded furniture a long glance.

This is an atom: 
"Good Heavens!" she said, "how ugly it is here! And we shall have
everybody coming to call upon us!"

This is an atom: 
"Bah!" replied Pierre, with supreme indifference, "we'll alter all
that."

This is an atom: 
He who, the night before, had entertained almost religious veneration
for the arm-chairs and the sofa, would now have willingly stamped on
them. Felicite, who felt the same contempt, even went so far as to
upset an arm-chair which was short of a castor and did not yield to her
quickly enough.

This is an atom: 
It was at this moment that Roudier entered. It at once occurred to
the old woman that he had become much more polite. His "Monsieur" and
"Madame" rolled forth in delightfully musical fashion. But the other
habitues were now arriving one after the other; and the drawing-room was
fast getting full. Nobody yet knew the full particulars of the events
of the night, and all had come in haste, with wondering eyes and smiling
lips, urged on by the rumours which were beginning to circulate through
the town. These gentlemen who, on the previous evening, had left the
drawing-room with such precipitation at the news of the insurgents'
approach, came back, inquisitive and importunate, like a swarm of
buzzing flies which a puff of wind would have dispersed. Some of
them had not even taken time to put on their braces. They were very
impatient, but it was evident that Rougon was waiting for some one else
before speaking out. He constantly turned an anxious look towards
the door. For an hour there was only significant hand-shaking, vague
congratulation, admiring whispering, suppressed joy of uncertain origin,
which only awaited a word of enlightenment to turn to enthusiasm.

This is an atom: 
At last Granoux appeared. He paused for a moment on the threshold,
with his right hand pressed to his breast between the buttons of his
frock-coat; his broad pale face was beaming; in vain he strove to
conceal his emotion beneath an expression of dignity. All the others
became silent on perceiving him; they felt that something extraordinary
was about to take place. Granoux walked straight up to Rougon, through
two lines of visitors, and held out his hand to him.

This is an atom: 
"My friend," he said, "I bring you the homage of the Municipal Council.
They call you to their head, until our mayor shall be restored to us.
You have saved Plassans. In the terrible crisis through which we are
passing we want men who, like yourself, unite intelligence with courage.
Come--"

This is an atom: 
At this point Granoux, who was reciting a little speech which he had
taken great trouble to prepare on his way from the Town Hall to the
Rue de la Banne felt his memory fail him. But Rougon, overwhelmed with
emotion, broke in, shaking his hand and repeating: "Thank you, my dear
Granoux; I thank you very much."

This is an atom: 
He could find nothing else to say. However, a loud burst of voices
followed. Every one rushed upon him, tried to shake hands, poured forth
praises and compliments, and eagerly questioned him. But he, already
putting on official dignity, begged for a few minutes' delay in order
that he might confer with Messieurs Granoux and Roudier. Business before
everything. The town was in such a critical situation! Then the three
accomplices retired to a corner of the drawing-room, where, in an
undertone, they divided power amongst themselves; the rest of the
visitors, who remained a few paces away, trying meanwhile to look
extremely wise and furtively glancing at them with mingled admiration
and curiosity. It was decided that Rougon should take the title of
president of the Municipal Commission; Granoux was to be secretary;
whilst, as for Roudier, he became commander-in-chief of the reorganised
National Guard. They also swore to support each other against all
opposition.

This is an atom: 
However, Felicite, who had drawn near, abruptly inquired: "And Vuillet?"

This is an atom: 
At this they looked at each other. Nobody had seen Vuillet. Rougon
seemed somewhat uneasy.

This is an atom: 
"Perhaps they've taken him away with the others," he said, to ease his
mind.

This is an atom: 
But Felicite shook her head. Vuillet was not the man to let himself be
arrested. Since nobody had seen or heard him, it was certain he had been
doing something wrong.

This is an atom: 
Suddenly the door opened and Vuillet entered, bowing humbly, with
blinking glance and stiff sacristan's smile. Then he held out his moist
hand to Rougon and the two others.

This is an atom: 
Vuillet had settled his little affairs alone. He had cut his own slice
out of the cake, as Felicite would have said. While peeping through
the ventilator of his cellar he had seen the insurgents arrest
the postmaster, whose offices were near his bookshop. At daybreak,
therefore, at the moment when Rougon was comfortably seated in the
mayor's arm-chair, he had quietly installed himself in the postmaster's
office. He knew the clerks; so he received them on their arrival,
told them that he would replace their chief until his return, and that
meantime they need be in nowise uneasy. Then he ransacked the morning
mail with ill-concealed curiosity. He examined the letters, and seemed
to be seeking a particular one. His new berth doubtless suited his
secret plans, for his satisfaction became so great that he actually gave
one of the clerks a copy of the "Oeuvres Badines de Piron." Vuillet, it
should be mentioned, did business in objectionable literature, which he
kept concealed in a large drawer, under the stock of heads and
religious images. It is probable that he felt some slight qualms at
the free-and-easy manner in which he had taken possession of the post
office, and recognised the desirability of getting his usurpation
confirmed as far as possible. At all events, he had thought it well to
call upon Rougon, who was fast becoming an important personage.

This is an atom: 
"Why! where have you been?" Felicite asked him in a distrustful manner.

This is an atom: 
Thereupon he related his story with sundry embellishments. According to
his own account he had saved the post-office from pillage.

This is an atom: 
"All right then! That's settled! Stay on there!" said Pierre, after a
moment's reflection. "Make yourself useful."

This is an atom: 
This last sentence revealed the one great fear that possessed the
Rougons. They were afraid that some one might prove too useful, and
do more than themselves to save the town. Still, Pierre saw no serious
danger in leaving Vuillet as provisional postmaster; it was even a
convenient means of getting rid of him. Felicite, however, made a sharp
gesture of annoyance.

This is an atom: 
The consultation having ended, the three accomplices mingled with the
various groups that filled the drawing-room. They were at last obliged
to satisfy the general curiosity by giving detailed accounts of recent
events. Rougon proved magnificent. He exaggerated, embellished, and
dramatised the story which he had related to his wife. The distribution
of the guns and cartridges made everybody hold their breath. But it was
the march through the deserted streets and the seizure of the town-hall
that most amazed these worthy bourgeois. At each fresh detail there was
an interruption.

This is an atom: 
"And you were only forty-one; it's marvellous!"

This is an atom: 
"Ah, indeed! it must have been frightfully dark!"

This is an atom: 
"No; I confess I never should have dared it!"

This is an atom: 
"Then you seized him, like that, by the throat?

This is an atom: 
"And the insurgents, what did they say?"

This is an atom: 
These remarks and questions only incited Rougon's imagination the more.
He replied to everybody. He mimicked the action. This stout man, in his
admiration of his own achievements, became as nimble as a schoolboy; he
began afresh, repeated himself, amidst the exclamations of surprise and
individual discussions which suddenly arose about some trifling detail.
And thus he continued blowing his trumpet, making himself more and
more important as if some irresistible force impelled him to turn his
narrative into a genuine epic. Moreover Granoux and Roudier stood by
his side prompting him, reminding him of such trifling matters as he
omitted. They also were burning to put in a word, and occasionally
they could not restrain themselves, so that all three went on talking
together. When, in order to keep the episode of the broken mirror for
the denouement, like some crowning glory, Rougon began to describe what
had taken place downstairs in the courtyard, after the arrest of the
guard, Roudier accused him of spoiling the narrative by changing
the sequence of events. For a moment they wrangled about it somewhat
sharply. Then Roudier, seeing a good opportunity for himself, suddenly
exclaimed: "Very well, let it be so. But you weren't there. So let me
tell it."

This is an atom: 
He thereupon explained at great length how the insurgents had awoke, and
how the muskets of the town's deliverers had been levelled at them to
reduce them to impotence. He added, however, that no blood, fortunately,
had been shed. This last sentence disappointed his audience, who had
counted upon one corpse at least.

This is an atom: 
"But I thought you fired," interrupted Felicite, recognising that the
story was wretchedly deficient in dramatic interest.

This is an atom: 
"Yes, yes, three shots," resumed the old hosier. "The pork-butcher
Dubruel, Monsieur Lievin, and Monsieur Massicot discharged their guns
with really culpable alacrity." And as there were some murmurs at this
remark; "Culpable, I repeat the word," he continued. "There are quite
enough cruel necessities in warfare without any useless shedding of
blood. Besides, these gentlemen swore to me that it was not their fault;
they can't understand how it was their guns went off. Nevertheless, a
spent ball after ricocheting grazed the cheek of one of the insurgents
and left a mark on it."

This is an atom: 
This graze, this unexpected wound, satisfied the audience. Which cheek,
right or left, had been grazed, and how was it that a bullet, a spent
one, even, could strike a cheek without piercing it? These points
supplied material for some long discussions.

This is an atom: 
"Meantime," continued Rougon at the top of his voice, without giving
time for the excitement to abate; "meantime we had plenty to do
upstairs. The struggle was quite desperate."

This is an atom: 
Then he described, at length, the arrival of his brother and the four
other insurgents, without naming Macquart, whom he simply called "the
leader." The words, "the mayor's office," "the mayor's arm-chair,"
"the mayor's writing table," recurred to him every instant, and in the
opinion of his audience imparted marvellous grandeur to the terrible
scene. It was not at the porter's lodge that the fight was now being
waged, but in the private sanctum of the chief magistrate of the town.
Roudier was quite cast in to the background. Then Rougon at last came to
the episode which he had been keeping in reserve from the commencement,
and which would certainly exalt him to the dignity of a hero.

This is an atom: 
"Thereupon," said he, "an insurgent rushes upon me. I push the mayor's
arm-chair away, and seize the man by the throat. I hold him tightly,
you may be sure of it! But my gun was in my way. I didn't want to let
it drop; a man always sticks to his gun. I held it, like this, under the
left arm. All of a sudden, it went off--"

This is an atom: 
The whole audience hung on Rougon's lips. But Granoux, who was opening
his mouth wide with a violent itching to say something, shouted: "No,
no, that isn't right. You were not in a position to see things, my
friend; you were fighting like a lion. But I saw everything, while I was
helping to bind one of the prisoners. The man tried to murder you; it
was he who fired the gun; I saw him distinctly slip his black fingers
under your arm."

This is an atom: 
"Really?" said Rougon, turning quite pale.

This is an atom: 
He did not know he had been in such danger, and the old almond
merchant's account of the incident chilled him with fright. Granoux, as
a rule, did not lie; but, on a day of battle, it is surely allowable to
view things dramatically.

This is an atom: 
"I tell you the man tried to murder you," he repeated, with conviction.

This is an atom: 
"Ah," said Rougon in a faint voice, "that's how it is I heard the bullet
whiz past my ear!"

This is an atom: 
At this, violent emotion came upon the audience. Everybody gazed at
the hero with respectful awe. He had heard a bullet whiz past his ear!
Certainly, none of the other bourgeois who were there could say as much.
Felicite felt bound to rush into her husband's arms so as to work up
the emotion to boiling point. But Rougon immediately freed himself,
and concluded his narrative with this heroic sentence, which has become
famous at Plassans: "The shot goes off; I hear the bullet whiz past my
ear; and whish! it smashes the mayor's mirror."

This is an atom: 
This caused complete consternation. Such a magnificent mirror, too!
It was scarcely credible! the damage done to that looking-glass almost
out-balanced Rougon's heroism, in the estimation of the company. The
glass became an object of absorbing interest, and they talked about
it for a quarter of an hour, with many exclamations and expressions of
regret, as though it had been some dear friend that had been stricken to
the heart. This was the culminating point that Rougon had aimed at, the
denouement of his wonderful Odyssey. A loud hubbub of voices filled
the yellow drawing-room. The visitors were repeating what they had just
heard, and every now and then one of them would leave a group to ask the
three heroes the exact truth with regard to some contested incident. The
heroes set the matter right with scrupulous minuteness, for they felt
that they were speaking for history!

This is an atom: 
At last Rougon and his two lieutenants announced that they were expected
at the town-hall. Respectful silence was then restored, and the company
smiled at each other discreetly. Granoux was swelling with importance.
He was the only one who had seen the insurgent pull the trigger and
smash the mirror; this sufficed to exalt him, and almost made him burst
his skin. On leaving the drawing-room, he took Roudier's arm with the
air of a great general who is broken down with fatigue. "I've been up
for thirty-six hours," he murmured, "and heaven alone knows when I shall
get to bed!"

This is an atom: 
Rougon, as he withdrew, took Vuillet aside and told him that the party
of order relied more than ever on him and the "Gazette." He would have
to publish an effective article to reassure the inhabitants and treat
the band of villains who had passed through Plassans as it deserved.

This is an atom: 
"Be easy!" replied Vuillet. "In the ordinary course the 'Gazette'
ought not to appear till to-morrow morning, but I'll issue it this very
evening."

This is an atom: 
When the leaders had left, the rest of the visitors remained in the
yellow drawing-room for another moment, chattering like so many
old women, whom the escape of a canary has gathered together on the
pavement. These retired tradesmen, oil dealers, and wholesale hatters,
felt as if they were in a sort of fairyland. Never had they experienced
such thrilling excitement before. They could not get over their surprise
at discovering such heroes as Rougon, Granoux, and Roudier in their
midst. At last, half stifled by the stuffy atmosphere, and tired of ever
telling each other the same things, they decided to go off and spread
the momentous news abroad. They glided away one by one, each anxious
to have the glory of being the first to know and relate everything, and
Felicite, as she leaned out of the window, on being left alone, saw
them dispersing in the Rue de la Banne, waving their arms in an excited
manner, eager as they were to diffuse emotion to the four corners of the
town.

This is an atom: 
It was ten o'clock, and Plassans, now wide awake, was running about the
streets, wildly excited by the reports which were circulating. Those who
had seen or heard the insurrectionary forces, related the most foolish
stories, contradicting each other, and indulging in the wildest
suppositions. The majority, however, knew nothing at all about the
matter; they lived at the further end of the town, and listened with
gaping mouths, like children to a nursery tale, to the stories of how
several thousand bandits had invaded the streets during the night and
vanished before daybreak like an army of phantoms. A few of the most
sceptical said: "Nonsense!" Yet some of the details were very precise;
and Plassans at last felt convinced that some frightful danger had
passed over it while it slept. The darkness which had shrouded this
danger, the various contradictory reports that spread, all invested the
matter with mystery and vague horror, which made the bravest shudder.
Whose hand had diverted the thunderbolt from them? There seemed to
be something quite miraculous about it. There were rumours of unknown
deliverers, of a handful of brave men who had cut off the hydra's head;
but no one seemed acquainted with the exact particulars, and the whole
story appeared scarcely credible, until the company from the yellow
drawing-room spread through the streets, scattering tidings, ever
repeating the same narrative at each door they came to.

This is an atom: 
It was like a train of powder. In a few minutes the story had spread
from one end of the town to the other. Rougon's name flew from mouth to
mouth, with exclamations of surprise in the new town, and of praise in
the old quarter. The idea of being without a sub-prefect, a mayor, a
postmaster, a receiver of taxes, or authorities of any kind, at first
threw the inhabitants into consternation. They were stupefied at having
been able to sleep through the night and get up as usual, in the
absence of any settled government. Their first stupor over, they
threw themselves recklessly into the arms of their liberators. The few
Republicans shrugged their shoulders, but the petty shopkeepers, the
small householders, the Conservatives of all shades, invoked blessings
on those modest heroes whose achievements had been shrouded by the
night. When it was known that Rougon had arrested his own brother, the
popular admiration knew no bounds. People talked of Brutus, and thus the
indiscretion which had made Pierre rather anxious, really redounded
to his glory. At this moment when terror still hovered over them,
the townsfolk were virtually unanimous in their gratitude. Rougon was
accepted as their saviour without the slightest show of opposition.

This is an atom: 
"Just think of it!" the poltroons exclaimed, "there were only forty-one
of them!"

This is an atom: 
That number of forty-one amazed the whole town, and this was the
origin of the Plassans legend of how forty-one bourgeois had made three
thousand insurgents bite the dust. There were only a few envious spirits
of the new town, lawyers without work and retired military men ashamed
of having slept ingloriously through that memorable night, who raised
any doubts. The insurgents, these sceptics hinted, had no doubt left
the town of their own accord. There were no indications of a combat,
no corpses, no blood-stains. So the deliverers had certainly had a very
easy task.

This is an atom: 
"But the mirror, the mirror!" repeated the enthusiasts. "You can't deny
that the mayor's mirror has been smashed; go and see it for yourselves."

This is an atom: 
And, in fact, until night-time, quite a stream of town's-people flowed,
under one pretext or another, into the mayor's private office, the door
of which Rougon left wide open. The visitors planted themselves in front
of the mirror, which the bullet had pierced and starred, and they all
gave vent to the same exclamation: "By Jove; that ball must have had
terrible force!"

This is an atom: 
Then they departed quite convinced.

This is an atom: 
Felicite, at her window, listened with delight to all the rumours and
laudatory and grateful remarks which arose from the town. At that moment
all Plassans was talking of her husband. She felt that the two districts
below her were quivering, wafting her the hope of approaching triumph.
Ah! how she would crush that town which she had been so long in getting
beneath her feet! All her grievances crowded back to her memory, and her
past disappointments redoubled her appetite for immediate enjoyment.

This is an atom: 
At last she left the window, and walked slowly round the drawing-room.
It was there that, a little while previously, everybody had held out
their hands to her husband and herself. He and she had conquered; the
citizens were at their feet. The yellow drawing-room seemed to her a
holy place. The dilapidated furniture, the frayed velvet, the chandelier
soiled with fly-marks, all those poor wrecks now seemed to her like
the glorious bullet-riddled debris of a battle-field. The plain of
Austerlitz would not have stirred her to deeper emotion.

This is an atom: 
When she returned to the window, she perceived Aristide wandering about
the place of the Sub-Prefecture, with his nose in the air. She beckoned
to him to come up, which he immediately did. It seemed as if he had only
been waiting for this invitation.

This is an atom: 
"Come in," his mother said to him on the landing, seeing that he
hesitated. "Your father is not here."

This is an atom: 
Aristide evinced all the shyness of a prodigal son returning home. He
had not been inside the yellow drawing-room for nearly four years. He
still carried his arm in a sling.

This is an atom: 
"Does your hand still pain you?" his mother asked him, ironically.

This is an atom: 
He blushed as he answered with some embarrassment: "Oh! it's getting
better; it's nearly well again now."

This is an atom: 
Then he lingered there, loitering about and not knowing what to say.
Felicite came to the rescue. "I suppose you've heard them talking about
your father's noble conduct?" she resumed.

This is an atom: 
He replied that the whole town was talking of it. And then, as he
regained his self-possession, he paid his mother back for her raillery
in her own coin. Looking her full in the face he added: "I came to see
if father was wounded."

This is an atom: 
"Come, don't play the fool!" cried Felicite, petulantly. "If I were you
I would act boldly and decisively. Confess now that you made a false
move in joining those good-for-nothing Republicans. You would be very
glad, I'm sure, to be well rid of them, and to return to us, who are the
stronger party. Well, the house is open to you!"

This is an atom: 
But Aristide protested. The Republic was a grand idea. Moreover, the
insurgents might still carry the day.

This is an atom: 
"Don't talk nonsense to me!" retorted the old woman, with some
irritation. "You're afraid that your father won't have a very warm
welcome for you. But I'll see to that. Listen to me: go back to your
newspaper, and, between now and to-morrow, prepare a number strongly
favouring the Coup d'Etat. To-morrow evening, when this number has
appeared, come back here and you will be received with open arms."

This is an atom: 
Then seeing that the young man remained silent: "Do you hear?" she
added, in a lower and more eager tone; "it is necessary for our sake,
and for your own, too, that it should be done. Don't let us have any
more nonsense and folly. You've already compromised yourself enough in
that way."

This is an atom: 
The young man made a gesture--the gesture of a Caesar crossing the
Rubicon--and by doing so escaped entering into any verbal engagement. As
he was about to withdraw, his mother, looking for the knot in his sling,
remarked: "First of all, you must let me take off this rag. It's getting
a little ridiculous, you know!"

This is an atom: 
Aristide let her remove it. When the silk handkerchief was untied,
he folded it neatly and placed it in his pocket. And as he kissed his
mother he exclaimed: "Till to-morrow then!"

This is an atom: 
In the meanwhile, Rougon was taking official possession of the mayor's
offices. There were only eight municipal councillors left; the others
were in the hands of the insurgents, as well as the mayor and his two
assessors. The eight remaining gentlemen, who were all on a par with
Granoux, perspired with fright when the latter explained to them the
critical situation of the town. It requires an intimate knowledge of the
kind of men who compose the municipal councils of some of the smaller
towns, in order to form an idea of the terror with which these timid
folk threw themselves into Rougon's arms. At Plassans, the mayor had
the most incredible blockheads under him, men without any ideas of their
own, and accustomed to passive obedience. Consequently, as Monsieur
Garconnet was no longer there, the municipal machine was bound to get
out of order, and fall completely under the control of the man who might
know how to set it working. Moreover, as the sub-prefect had left the
district, Rougon naturally became sole and absolute master of the town;
and thus, strange to relate, the chief administrative authority fell
into the hands of a man of indifferent repute, to whom, on the previous
evening, not one of his fellow-citizens would have lent a hundred
francs.

This is an atom: 
Pierre's first act was to declare the Provisional Commission "en
permanence." Then he gave his attention to the organisation of the
national guard, and succeeded in raising three hundred men. The
hundred and nine muskets left in the cart-shed were also distributed
to volunteers, thereby bringing up the number of men armed by the
reactionary party to one hundred and fifty; the remaining one hundred
and fifty guards consisted of well-affected citizens and some of
Sicardot's soldiers. When Commander Roudier reviewed the little army in
front of the town-hall, he was annoyed to see the market-people smiling
in their sleeves. The fact is that several of his men had no uniforms,
and some of them looked very droll with their black hats, frock-coats,
and muskets. But, at any rate, they meant well. A guard was left at the
town-hall and the rest of the forces were sent in detachments to the
various town gates. Roudier reserved to himself the command of the guard
stationed at the Grand'-Porte, which seemed to be more liable to attack
than the others.

This is an atom: 
Rougon, who now felt very conscious of his power, repaired to the Rue
Canquoin to beg the gendarmes to remain in their barracks and interfere
with nothing. He certainly had the doors of the gendarmerie opened--the
keys having been carried off by the insurgents--but he wanted to triumph
alone, and had no intention of letting the gendarmes rob him of any part
of his glory. If he should really have need of them he could always
send for them. So he explained to them that their presence might tend to
irritate the working-men and thus aggravate the situation. The sergeant
in command thereupon complimented him on his prudence. When Rougon was
informed that there was a wounded man in the barracks, he asked to see
him, by way of rendering himself popular. He found Rengade in bed, with
his eye bandaged, and his big moustaches just peeping out from under the
linen. With some high-sounding words about duty, Rougon endeavoured to
comfort the unfortunate fellow who, having lost an eye, was swearing
with exasperation at the thought that his injury would compel him to
quit the service. At last Rougon promised to send the doctor to him.

This is an atom: 
"I'm much obliged to you, sir," Rengade replied; "but, you know, what
would do me more good than any quantity of doctor's stuff would be to
wring the neck of the villain who put my eye out. Oh! I shall know him
again; he's a little thin, palish fellow, quite young."

This is an atom: 
Thereupon Pierre bethought himself of the blood he had seen on Silvere's
hand. He stepped back a little, as though he was afraid that Rengade
would fly at his throat, and cry: "It was your nephew who blinded me;
and you will have to pay for it." And whilst he was mentally cursing his
disreputable family, he solemnly declared that if the guilty person were
found he should be punished with all the rigour of the law.

This is an atom: 
"No, no, it isn't worth all that trouble," the one-eyed man replied;
"I'll just wring his neck for him when I catch him."

This is an atom: 
Rougon hastened back to the town-hall. The afternoon was employed in
taking various measures. The proclamation posted up about one o'clock
produced an excellent impression. It ended by an appeal to the good
sense of the citizens, and gave a firm assurance that order would not
again be disturbed. Until dusk, in fact, the streets presented a picture
of general relief and perfect confidence. On the pavements, the groups
who were reading the proclamation exclaimed:

This is an atom: 
"It's all finished now; we shall soon see the troops who have been sent
in pursuit of the insurgents."

This is an atom: 
This belief that some soldiers were approaching was so general that the
idles of the Cours Sauvaire repaired to the Nice road, in order to
meet and hear the regimental band. But they returned at nightfall
disappointed, having seen nothing; and then a feeling of vague alarm
began to disturb the townspeople.

This is an atom: 
At the town-hall, the Provisional Commission had talked so much, without
coming to any decision, that the members, whose stomachs were quite
empty, began to feel alarmed again. Rougon dismissed them to dine,
saying that they would meet afresh at nine o'clock in the evening. He
was just about to leave the room himself, when Macquart awoke and began
to pommel the door of his prison. He declared he was hungry, then asked
what time it was, and when his brother had told him it was five o'clock,
he feigned great astonishment, and muttered, with diabolical malice,
that the insurgents had promised to return much earlier, and that they
were very slow in coming to deliver him. Rougon, having ordered
some food to be taken to him, went downstairs, quite worried by the
earnestness with which the rascal spoke of the return of the insurgents.

This is an atom: 
When he reached the street, his disquietude increased. The town seemed
to him quite altered. It was assuming a strange aspect; shadows were
gliding along the footpaths, which were growing deserted and silent,
while gloomy fear seemed, like fine rain, to be slowly, persistently
falling with the dusk over the mournful-looking houses. The babbling
confidence of the daytime was fatally terminating in groundless panic,
in growing alarm as the night drew nearer; the inhabitants were so weary
and so satiated with their triumph that they had no strength left but to
dream of some terrible retaliation on the part of the insurgents. Rougon
shuddered as he passed through this current of terror. He hastened his
steps, feeling as if he would choke. As he passed a cafe on the Place
des Recollets, where the lamps had just been lit, and where the petty
cits of the new town were assembled, he heard a few words of terrifying
conversation.

This is an atom: 
"Well! Monsieur Picou," said one man in a thick voice, "you've heard the
news? The regiment that was expected has not arrived."

This is an atom: 
"But nobody expected any regiment, Monsieur Touche," a shrill voice
replied.

This is an atom: 
"I beg your pardon. You haven't read the proclamation, then?"

This is an atom: 
"Oh yes, it's true the placards declare that order will be maintained by
force, if necessary."

This is an atom: 
"You see, then, there's force mentioned; that means armed forces, of
course."

This is an atom: 
"What do people say then?"

This is an atom: 
"Well, you know, folks are beginning to feel rather frightened; they say
that this delay on the part of the soldiers isn't natural, and that the
insurgents may well have slaughtered them."

This is an atom: 
A cry of horror resounded through the cafe. Rougon was inclined to go in
and tell those bourgeois that the proclamation had never announced the
arrival of a regiment, that they had no right to strain its meaning
to such a degree, nor to spread such foolish theories abroad. But he
himself, amidst the disquietude which was coming over him, was not quite
sure he had not counted upon a despatch of troops; and he did, in fact,
consider it strange that not a single soldier had made his appearance.
So he reached home in a very uneasy state of mind. Felicite, still
petulant and full of courage, became quite angry at seeing him upset by
such silly trifles. Over the dessert she comforted him.

This is an atom: 
"Well, you great simpleton," she said, "so much the better, if the
prefect does forget us! We shall save the town by ourselves. For my
part, I should like to see the insurgents return, so that we might
receive them with bullets and cover ourselves with glory. Listen to
me, go and have the gates closed, and don't go to bed; bustle about all
night; it will all be taken into account later on."

This is an atom: 
Pierre returned to the town-hall in rather more cheerful spirits. He
required some courage to remain firm amidst the woeful maunderings of
his colleagues. The members of the Provisional Commission seemed to reek
with panic, just as they might with damp in the rainy season. They all
professed to have counted upon the despatch of a regiment, and began to
exclaim that brave citizens ought not to be abandoned in such a manner
to the fury of the rabble. Pierre, to preserve peace, almost promised
they should have a regiment on the morrow. Then he announced, in a
solemn manner, that he was going to have the gates closed. This came as
a relief. Detachments of the national guards had to repair immediately
to each gate and double-lock it. When they had returned, several members
confessed that they really felt more comfortable; and when Pierre
remarked that the critical situation of the town imposed upon them the
duty of remaining at their posts, some of them made arrangements with
the view of spending the night in an arm-chair. Granoux put on a black
silk skull cap which he had brought with him by way of precaution.
Towards eleven o'clock, half of the gentlemen were sleeping round
Monsieur Garconnet's writing table. Those who still managed to keep
their eyes open fancied, as they listened to the measured tramp of
the national guards in the courtyard, that they were heroes and were
receiving decorations. A large lamp, placed on the writing-table,
illumined this strange vigil. All at once, however, Rougon, who had
seemed to be slumbering, jumped up, and sent for Vuillet. He had just
remembered that he had not received the "Gazette."

This is an atom: 
The bookseller made his appearance in a very bad humour.

This is an atom: 
"Well!" Rougon asked him as he took him aside, "what about the article
you promised me? I haven't seen the paper."

This is an atom: 
"Is that what you disturbed me for?" Vuillet angrily retorted. "The
'Gazette' has not been issued; I've no desire to get myself murdered
to-morrow, should the insurgents come back."

This is an atom: 
Rougon tried to smile as he declared that, thank heaven, nobody would be
murdered at all. It was precisely because false and disquieting rumours
were running about that the article in question would have rendered
great service to the good cause.

This is an atom: 
"Possibly," Vuillet resumed; "but the best of causes at the present
time is to keep one's head on one's shoulders." And he added, with
maliciousness, "And I was under the impression you had killed all the
insurgents! You've left too many of them for me to run any risk."

This is an atom: 
Rougon, when he was alone again, felt amazed at this mutiny on the part
of a man who was usually so meek and mild. Vuillet's conduct seemed
to him suspicious. But he had no time to seek an explanation; he had
scarcely stretched himself out afresh in his arm-chair, when Roudier
entered, with a big sabre, which he had attached to his belt, clattering
noisily against his legs. The sleepers awoke in a fright. Granoux
thought it was a call to arms.

This is an atom: 
"Eh? what! What's the matter?" he asked, as he hastily put his black
silk cap into his pocket.

This is an atom: 
"Gentlemen," said Roudier, breathlessly, without thinking of taking
any oratorical precautions, "I believe that a band of insurgents is
approaching the town."

This is an atom: 
These words were received with the silence of terror. Rougon alone had
the strength to ask, "Have you seen them?"

This is an atom: 
"No," the retired hosier replied; "but we hear strange noises out in the
country; one of my men assured me that he had seen fires along the slope
of the Garrigues."

This is an atom: 
Then, as all the gentlemen stared at each other white and speechless,
"I'll return to my post," he continued. "I fear an attack. You had
better take precautions."

This is an atom: 
Rougon would have followed him, to obtain further particulars, but he
was already too far away. After this the Commission was by no means
inclined to go to sleep again. Strange noises! Fires! An attack! And
in the middle of the night too! It was very easy to talk of taking
precautions, but what were they to do? Granoux was very near advising
the course which had proved so successful the previous evening: that
is of hiding themselves, waiting till the insurgents has passed through
Plassans, and then triumphing in the deserted streets. Pierre, however,
fortunately remembering his wife's advice, said that Roudier might
have made a mistake, and that the best thing would be to go and see for
themselves. Some of the members made a wry face at this suggestion;
but when it had been agreed that an armed escort should accompany the
Commission, they all descended very courageously. They only left a few
men downstairs; they surrounded themselves with about thirty of the
national guards, and then they ventured into the slumbering town, where
the moon, creeping over the house roofs, slowly cast lengthened shadows.
They went along the ramparts, from one gate to the other, seeing nothing
and hearing nothing. The national guards at the various posts certainly
told them that peculiar sounds occasionally reached them from the
country through the closed gates. When they strained their ears,
however, they detected nothing but a distant murmur, which Granoux said
was merely the noise of the Viorne.

This is an atom: 
Nevertheless they remained doubtful. And they were about to return to
the town-hall in a state of alarm, though they made a show of shrugging
their shoulders and of treating Roudier as a poltroon and a dreamer,
when Rougon, anxious to reassure them, thought of enabling them to
view the plain over a distance of several leagues. Thereupon he led the
little company to the Saint-Marc quarter and knocked at the door of the
Valqueyras mansion.

This is an atom: 
At the very outset of the disturbances Count de Valqueyras had left for
his chateau at Corbiere. There was no one but the Marquis de Carnavant
at the Plassans house. He, since the previous evening, had prudently
kept aloof; not that he was afraid, but because he did not care to be
seen plotting with the Rougons at the critical moment. As a matter
of fact, he was burning with curiosity. He had been compelled to shut
himself up in order to resist the temptation of hastening to the yellow
drawing-room. When the footman came to tell him, in the middle of the
night, that there were some gentlemen below asking for him, he could not
hold back any longer. He got up and went downstairs in all haste.

This is an atom: 
"My dear Marquis," said Rougon, as he introduced to him the members
of the Municipal Commission, "we want to ask a favour of you. Will you
allow us to go into the garden of the mansion?"

This is an atom: 
"By all means," replied the astonished marquis, "I will conduct you
there myself."

This is an atom: 
On the way thither he ascertained what their object was. At the end of
the garden rose a terrace which overlooked the plain. A large portion of
the ramparts had there tumbled in, leaving a boundless prospect to the
view. It had occurred to Rougon that this would serve as an excellent
post of observation. While conversing together the members of the
Commission leaned over the parapet. The strange spectacle that spread
out before them soon made them silent. In the distance, in the valley of
the Viorne, across the vast hollow which stretched westward between the
chain of the Garrigues and the mountains of the Seille, the rays of the
moon were streaming like a river of pale light. The clumps of trees, the
gloomy rocks, looked, here and there, like islets and tongues of land,
emerging from a luminous sea; and, according to the bends of the Viorne
one could now and again distinguish detached portions of the river,
glittering like armour amidst the fine silvery dust falling from the
firmament. It all looked like an ocean, a world, magnified by the
darkness, the cold, and their own secret fears. At first the gentlemen
could neither hear nor see anything. The quiver of light and of distant
sound blinded their eyes and confused their ears. Granoux, though he
was not naturally poetic, was struck by the calm serenity of that winter
night, and murmured: "What a beautiful night, gentlemen!"

This is an atom: 
"Roudier was certainly dreaming," exclaimed Rougon, rather disdainfully.

This is an atom: 
But the marquis, whose ears were quick, had begun to listen. "Ah!" he
observed in his clear voice, "I hear the tocsin."

This is an atom: 
At this they all leant over the parapet, holding their breath. And light
and pure as crystal the distant tolling of a bell rose from the plain.
The gentlemen could not deny it. It was indeed the tocsin. Rougon
pretended that he recognised the bell of Beage, a village fully a league
from Plassans. This he said in order to reassure his colleagues.

This is an atom: 
But the marquis interrupted him. "Listen, listen: this time it is the
bell of Saint-Maur." And he indicated another point of the horizon to
them. There was, in fact, a second bell wailing through the clear night.
And very soon there were ten bells, twenty bells, whose despairing
tollings were detected by their ears, which had by this time grown
accustomed to the quivering of the darkness. Ominous calls rose from all
sides, like the faint rattles of dying men. Soon the whole plain seemed
to be wailing. The gentlemen no longer jeered at Roudier; particularly
as the marquis, who took a malicious delight in terrifying them, was
kind enough to explain the cause of all this bell-ringing.

This is an atom: 
"It is the neighbouring villages," he said to Rougon, "banding together
to attack Plassans at daybreak."

This is an atom: 
At this Granoux opened his eyes wide. "Didn't you see something just
this moment over there?" he asked all of a sudden.

This is an atom: 
Nobody had looked; the gentlemen had been keeping their eyes closed in
order to hear the better.

This is an atom: 
"Ah! look!" he resumed after a short pause. "There, beyond the Viorne,
near that black mass."

This is an atom: 
"Yes, I see," replied Rougon, in despair; "it's a fire they're kindling."

This is an atom: 
A moment later another fire appeared almost immediately in front of
the first one, then a third, and a fourth. In this wise red splotches
appeared at nearly equal distances throughout the whole length of the
valley, resembling the lamps of some gigantic avenue. The moonlight,
which dimmed their radiance, made them look like pools of blood. This
melancholy illumination gave a finishing touch to the consternation of
the Municipal Commission.

This is an atom: 
"Of course!" the marquis muttered, with his bitterest sneer, "those
brigands are signalling to each other." And he counted the fires
complacently, to get some idea, he said, as to how many men "the brave
national guard of Plassans" would have to deal with. Rougon endeavoured
to raise doubts by saying the villages were taking up arms in order to
join the army of the insurgents, and not for the purpose of attacking
the town. But the gentlemen, by their silent consternation, made
it clear that they had formed their own opinion, and were not to be
consoled.

This is an atom: 
"I can hear the 'Marseillaise' now," remarked Granoux in a hushed voice.

This is an atom: 
It was indeed true. A detachment must have been following the course of
the Viorne, passing, at that moment, just under the town. The cry, "To
arms, citizens! Form your battalions!" reached the on-lookers in sudden
bursts with vibrating distinctness. Ah! what an awful night it was! The
gentlemen spent it leaning over the parapet of the terrace, numbed by
the terrible cold, and yet quite unable to tear themselves away from
the sight of that plain which resounded with the tocsin and the
"Marseillaise," and was all ablaze with signal-fires. They feasted their
eyes upon that sea of light, flecked with blood-red flames; and they
strained their ears in order to listen to the confused clamour, till at
last their senses began to deceive them, and they saw and heard the most
frightful things. Nothing in the world would have induced them to leave
the spot. If they had turned their backs, they would have fancied that
a whole army was at their heels. After the manner of a certain class
of cowards, they wished to witness the approach of the danger, in order
that they might take flight at the right moment. Towards morning, when
the moon had set and they could see nothing in front of them but a
dark void, they fell into a terrible fright. They fancied they were
surrounded by invisible enemies, who were crawling along in the
darkness, ready to fly at their throats. At the slightest noise they
imagined there were enemies deliberating beneath the terrace, prior to
scaling it. Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to state that if in future the Hanyehping Company and
the Japanese capitalists agree upon co-operation, the Chinese Government,
in view of the intimate relations subsisting between the Japanese
capitalists and the said Company, will forthwith give its permission.

This is an atom: 
The Chinese Government further agrees not to confiscate the said Company,
nor, without the consent of the Japanese capitalists to convert it into
a state enterprise, nor cause it to borrow and use foreign capital other
than Japanese.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) LOU TSENG-TSIANG.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.

This is an atom: 
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of Taisho.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this day's date in which you state:

This is an atom: 
"If in future the Hanyehping Company and the Japanese capitalists
agree upon co-operation, the Chinese Government, in view of the
intimate relations subsisting between the Japanese capitalists and
the said Company, will forthwith give its permission.

This is an atom: 
The Chinese Government further agrees not to confiscate the said Company,
nor, without the consent of the Japanese capitalists to convert
it into a state enterprise, nor cause it to borrow and use foreign
capital other than Japanese."
In reply, I beg to state that I have taken note of the same.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,

This is an atom: 
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.

This is an atom: 
EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE FUKIEN QUESTION
--Note--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic
of China.

This is an atom: 
Excellency,
A report has reached me to the effect that the Chinese Government has the
intention of permitting foreign nations to establish, on the coast
of Fukien Province, dock-yards, coaling stations for military use, naval
bases, or to set up other military establishments; and also of borrowing
foreign capital for the purpose of setting up the above-mentioned
establishments. I have the honour to request that Your Excellency
will be good enough to give me reply stating whether or not the
Chinese Government really entertains such an intention.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
--Reply--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic
of China.

This is an atom: 
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this day's date which I have noted.
In reply I beg to inform you that the Chinese Government hereby
declares that it has given no permission to foreign nations to
construct, on the coast of Fukien Province, dock-yards, coaling
stations for military use, naval bases, or to set up other military
establishment; nor does it entertain an intention of borrowing
foreign capital for the purpose of setting up the above- mentioned
establishmments.

This is an atom: 
I avail, etc., 
(Signed) LOU TSENG-TSIANG.
His Excellency, Hioki Eki, Japanese Minister.
DOCUMENTS IN GROUP IV
(1) The Draft of the Permanent Constitution completed in May,
1917.
(2) The proposed Provincial System, i.e., the local government
law.
(3) Memorandum by the Ministry of Commerce on Tariff Revision,
illustrating the anomalies of present trade taxationIt was Tuesday, the market-day at Plassans, and Roudier had thought it
necessary to have the gates opened in order to admit the few peasants
who had brought vegetables, butter, and eggs. As soon as it had
assembled, the Municipal Commission, now composed of five members only,
including its president, declared that this was unpardonable imprudence.
Although the sentinel stationed at the Valqueyras mansion had seen
nothing, the town ought to have been kept closed. Then Rougon decided
that the public crier, accompanied by a drummer, should go through the
streets, proclaim a state of siege, and announce to the inhabitants
that whoever might go out would not be allowed to return. The gates were
officially closed in broad daylight. This measure, adopted in order to
reassure the inhabitants, raised the scare to its highest pitch. And
there could scarcely have been a more curious sight than that of this
little city, thus padlocking and bolting itself up beneath the bright
sunshine, in the middle of the nineteenth century.

This is an atom: 
When Plassans had buckled and tightened its belt of dilapidated
ramparts, when it had bolted itself in like a besieged fortress at
the approach of an assault, the most terrible anguish passed over the
mournful houses. At every moment, in the centre of the town, people
fancied they could hear a discharge of musketry in the Faubourgs. They
no longer received any news; they were, so to say, at the bottom of
a cellar, in a walled hole, where they were anxiously awaiting
either deliverance or the finishing stroke. For the last two days
the insurgents, who were scouring the country, had cut off all
communication. Plassans found itself isolated from the rest of France.
It felt that it was surrounded by a region in open rebellion, where the
tocsin was ever ringing and the "Marseillaise" was ever roaring like
a river that has overflowed its banks. Abandoned to its fate and
shuddering with alarm the town lay there like some prey which would
prove the reward of the victorious party. The strollers on the Cours
Sauvaire were ever swaying between fear and hope according as they
fancied that they could see the blouses of insurgents or the uniforms
of soldiers at the Grand'-Porte. Never had sub-prefecture, pent within
tumble-down walls, endured more agonising torture.

This is an atom: 
Towards two o'clock it was rumoured that the Coup d'Etat had failed,
that the prince-president was imprisoned at Vincennes, and that Paris
was in the hands of the most advanced demagogues. It was reported also
that Marseilles, Toulon, Draguignan, the entire South, belonged to the
victorious insurrectionary army. The insurgents would arrive in the
evening and put Plassans to the sword.

This is an atom: 
Thereupon a deputation repaired to the town-hall to expostulate with
the Municipal Commission for closing the gates, whereby they would only
irritate the insurgents. Rougon, who was losing his head, defended his
order with all his remaining strength. This locking of the gates seemed
to him one of the most ingenious acts of his administration; he advanced
the most convincing arguments in its justification. But the others
embarrassed him by their questions, asking him where were the soldiers,
the regiment that he had promised. Then he began to lie, and told them
flatly that he had promised nothing at all. The non-appearance of this
legendary regiment, which the inhabitants longed for with such eagerness
that they had actually dreamt of its arrival, was the chief cause of the
panic. Well-informed people even named the exact spot on the high road
where the soldiers had been butchered.

This is an atom: 
At four o'clock Rougon, followed by Granoux, again repaired to the
Valqueyras mansion. Small bands, on their way to join the insurgents at
Orcheres, still passed along in the distance, through the valley of the
Viorne. Throughout the day urchins climbed the ramparts, and bourgeois
came to peep through the loopholes. These volunteer sentinels kept up
the terror by counting the various bands, which were taken for so many
strong battalions. The timorous population fancied it could see from the
battlements the preparations for some universal massacre. At dusk, as on
the previous evening, the panic became yet more chilling.

This is an atom: 
On returning to the municipal offices Rougon and his inseparable
companion, Granoux, recognised that the situation was growing
intolerable. During their absence another member of the Commission had
disappeared. They were only four now, and they felt they were making
themselves ridiculous by staying there for hours, looking at each
other's pale countenances, and never saying a word. Moreover, they were
terribly afraid of having to spend a second night on the terrace of the
Valqueyras mansion.

This is an atom: 
Rougon gravely declared that as the situation of affairs was unchanged,
there was no need for them to continue to remain there _en permanence_.
If anything serious should occur information would be sent to them. And,
by a decision duly taken in council, he deputed to Roudier the carrying
on of the administration. Poor Roudier, who remembered that he had
served as a national guard in Paris under Louis-Philippe, was meantime
conscientiously keeping watch at the Grand'-Porte.

This is an atom: 
Rougon went home looking very downcast, and creeping along under the
shadows of the houses. He felt that Plassans was becoming hostile
to him. He heard his name bandied about amongst the groups, with
expressions of anger and contempt. He walked upstairs, reeling and
perspiring. Felicite received him with speechless consternation. She,
also, was beginning to despair. Their dreams were being completely
shattered. They stood silent, face to face, in the yellow drawing-room.
The day was drawing to a close, a murky winter day which imparted a
muddy tint to the orange-coloured wall-paper with its large flower
pattern; never had the room looked more faded, more mean, more shabby.
And at this hour they were alone; they no longer had a crowd of
courtiers congratulating them, as on the previous evening. A single
day had sufficed to topple them over, at the very moment when they were
singing victory. If the situation did not change on the morrow their
game would be lost.

This is an atom: 
Felicite who, when gazing on the previous evening at the ruins of
the yellow drawing-room, had thought of the plains of Austerlitz, now
recalled the accursed field of Waterloo as she observed how mournful
and deserted the place was. Then, as her husband said nothing, she
mechanically went to the window--that window where she had inhaled with
delight the incense of the entire town. She perceived numerous groups
below on the square, but she closed the blinds upon seeing some heads
turn towards their house, for she feared that she might be hooted. She
felt quite sure that those people were speaking about them.

This is an atom: 
Indeed, voices rose through the twilight. A lawyer was clamouring in the
tone of a triumphant pleader. "That's just what I said; the insurgents
left of their own accord, and they won't ask the permission of the
forty-one to come back. The forty-one indeed! a fine farce! Why, I
believe there were at least two hundred."

This is an atom: 
"No, indeed," said a burly trader, an oil-dealer and a great politician,
"there were probably not even ten. There was no fighting or else we
should have seen some blood in the morning. I went to the town-hall
myself to look; the courtyard was as clean as my hand."

This is an atom: 
Then a workman, who stepped timidly up to the group, added: "There was
no need of any violence to seize the building; the door wasn't even
shut."

This is an atom: 
This remark was received with laughter, and the workman, thus
encouraged, continued: "As for those Rougons, everybody knows that they
are a bad lot."

This is an atom: 
This insult pierced Felicite to the heart. The ingratitude of the
people was heartrending to her, for she herself was at last beginning to
believe in the mission of the Rougons. She called for her husband. She
wanted him to learn how fickle was the multitude.

This is an atom: 
"It's all a piece with their mirror," continued the lawyer. "What a fuss
they made about that broken glass! You know that Rougon is quite capable
of having fired his gun at it just to make believe there had been a
battle."

This is an atom: 
Pierre restrained a cry of pain. What! they did not even believe in his
mirror now! They would soon assert that he had not heard a bullet whiz
past his ear. The legend of the Rougons would be blotted out; nothing
would remain of their glory. But his torture was not at an end yet.
The groups manifested their hostility as heartily as they had displayed
their approval on the previous evening. A retired hatter, an old man
seventy years of age, whose factory had formerly been in the Faubourg,
ferreted out the Rougons' past history. He spoke vaguely, with the
hesitation of a wandering memory, about the Fouques' property, and
Adelaide, and her amours with a smuggler. He said just enough to give
a fresh start to the gossip. The tattlers drew closer together and such
words as "rogues," "thieves," and "shameless intriguers," ascended to
the shutter behind which Pierre and Felicite were perspiring with fear
and indignation. The people on the square even went so far as to pity
Macquart. This was the final blow. On the previous day Rougon had been a
Brutus, a stoic soul sacrificing his own affections to his country; now
he was nothing but an ambitious villain, who felled his brother to the
ground and made use of him as a stepping-stone to fortune.

This is an atom: 
"You hear, you hear them?" Pierre murmured in a stifled voice. "Ah! the
scoundrels, they are killing us; we shall never retrieve ourselves."

This is an atom: 
Felicite, enraged, was beating a tattoo on the shutter with her
impatient fingers.

This is an atom: 
"Let them talk," she answered. "If we get the upper hand again they
shall see what stuff I'm made of. I know where the blow comes from. The
new town hates us."

This is an atom: 
She guessed rightly. The sudden unpopularity of the Rougons was the
work of a group of lawyers who were very much annoyed at the importance
acquired by an old illiterate oil-dealer, whose house had been on the
verge of bankruptcy. The Saint-Marc quarter had shown no sign of life
for the last two days. The inhabitants of the old quarter and the new
town alone remained in presence, and the latter had taken advantage
of the panic to injure the yellow drawing-room in the minds of the
tradespeople and working-classes. Roudier and Granoux were said to
be excellent men, honourable citizens, who had been led away by the
Rougons' intrigues. Their eyes ought to be opened to it. Ought not
Monsieur Isidore Granoux to be seated in the mayor's arm-chair, in the
place of that big portly beggar who had not a copper to bless himself
with? Thus launched, the envious folks began to reproach Rougon for
all the acts of his administration, which only dated from the previous
evening. He had no right to retain the services of the former Municipal
Council; he had been guilty of grave folly in ordering the gates to be
closed; it was through his stupidity that five members of the Commission
had contracted inflammation of the lungs on the terrace of the
Valqueyras mansion. There was no end to his faults. The Republicans
likewise raised their heads. They talked of the possibility of a sudden
attack upon the town-hall by the workmen of the Faubourg. The reaction
was at its last gasp.

This is an atom: 
Pierre, at this overthrow of all his hopes, began to wonder what support
he might still rely on if occasion should require any.

This is an atom: 
"Wasn't Aristide to come here this evening," he asked, "to make it up
with us?"

This is an atom: 
"Yes," answered Felicite. "He promised me a good article. The
'Independant' has not appeared yet--"

This is an atom: 
But her husband interrupted her, crying: "See! isn't that he who is just
coming out of the Sub-Prefecture?"

This is an atom: 
The old woman glanced in that direction. "He's got his arm in a sling
again!" she cried.

This is an atom: 
Aristide's hand was indeed wrapped in the silk handkerchief once more.
The Empire was breaking up, but the Republic was not yet triumphant,
and he had judged it prudent to resume the part of a disabled man. He
crossed the square stealthily, without raising his head. Then doubtless
hearing some dangerous and compromising remarks among the groups of
bystanders, he made all haste to turn the corner of the Rue de la Banne.

This is an atom: 
"Bah! he won't come here," said Felicite bitterly. "It's all up with us.
Even our children forsake us!"

This is an atom: 
She shut the window violently, in order that she might not see or hear
anything more. When she had lit the lamp, she and her husband sat down
to dinner, disheartened and without appetite, leaving most of their food
on their plates. They only had a few hours left them to take a decisive
step. --Ethelred, the second, of England, had a particular veneration
for Mount St. Michael. Abbot Roger had been almoner to William the
Conqueror. Henry II. of England made a pilgrimage to Mount St.
Michael, when he met Louis VII. King of France, with a splendid
suite.

This is an atom: 
In 1203 the fortifications consisted only of wooden palisades. Being
attacked by the Bretons, they set fire to them: the fire reached the
church and abbey, which was completely destroyed. The monastery
was restored in 1226, by Abbot Adulph de Villedieu.But they had no precise information; they
were losing their heads; the thought that they were thus risking their
fortune on a throw, in complete ignorance of what was happening, brought
a cold perspiration to their brows.

This is an atom: 
"And why the devil doesn't Eugene write to me?" Rougon suddenly cried,
in an outburst of despair, forgetting that he was betraying the secret
of his correspondence to his wife.

This is an atom: 
But Felicite pretended not to have heard. Her husband's exclamation
had profoundly affected her. Why, indeed, did not Eugene write to his
father? After keeping him so accurately informed of the progress of the
Bonapartist cause, he ought at least to have announced the triumph or
defeat of Prince Louis. Mere prudence would have counselled the
despatch of such information. If he remained silent, it must be that the
victorious Republic had sent him to join the pretender in the dungeons
of Vincennes. At this thought Felicite felt chilled to the marrow; her
son's silence destroyed her last hopes.

This is an atom: 
At that moment somebody brought up the "Gazette," which had only just
appeared.

This is an atom: 
"Ah!" said Pierre, with surprise. "Vuillet has issued his paper!"

This is an atom: 
Thereupon he tore off the wrapper, read the leading article, and
finished it looking as white as a sheet, and swaying on his chair.

This is an atom: 
"Here, read," he resumed, handing the paper to Felicite.

This is an atom: 
It was a magnificent article, attacking the insurgents with unheard of
violence. Never had so much stinging bitterness, so many falsehoods,
such bigoted abuse flowed from pen before. Vuillet commenced by
narrating the entry of the insurgents into Plassans. The description
was a perfect masterpiece. He spoke of "those bandits, those
villainous-looking countenances, that scum of the galleys," invading the
town, "intoxicated with brandy, lust, and pillage." Then he exhibited
them "parading their cynicism in the streets, terrifying the inhabitants
with their savage cries and seeking only violence and murder." Further
on, the scene at the town-hall and the arrest of the authorities became
a most horrible drama. "Then they seized the most respectable people by
the throat; and the mayor, the brave commander of the national
guard, the postmaster, that kindly functionary, were--even like the
Divinity--crowned with thorns by those wretches, who spat in their
faces." The passage devoted to Miette and her red pelisse was quite a
flight of imagination. Vuillet had seen ten, twenty girls steeped in
blood: "and who," he wrote, "did not behold among those monsters some
infamous creatures clothed in red, who must have bathed themselves in
the blood of the martyrs murdered by the brigands along the high roads?
They were brandishing banners, and openly receiving the vile caresses of
the entire horde." And Vuillet added, with Biblical magniloquence, "The
Republic ever marches on amidst debauchery and murder."

This is an atom: 
That, however, was only the first part of the article; the narrative
being ended, the editor asked if the country would any longer tolerate
"the shamelessness of those wild beasts, who respected neither property
nor persons." He made an appeal to all valorous citizens, declaring that
to tolerate such things any longer would be to encourage them, and
that the insurgents would then come and snatch "the daughter from her
mother's arms, the wife from her husband's embraces." And at last,
after a pious sentence in which he declared that Heaven willed the
extermination of the wicked, he concluded with this trumpet blast: "It
is asserted that these wretches are once more at our gates; well then
let each one of us take a gun and shoot them down like dogs. I for my
part shall be seen in the front rank, happy to rid the earth of such
vermin."

This is an atom: 
This article, in which periphrastic abuse was strung together with all
the heaviness of touch which characterises French provincial journalism,
quite terrified Rougon, who muttered, as Felicite replaced the "Gazette"
on the table: "Ah! the wretch! he is giving us the last blow; people
will believe that I inspired this diatribe."

This is an atom: 
"But," his wife remarked, pensively, "did you not this morning tell me
that he absolutely refused to write against the Republicans? The news
that circulated had terrified him, and he was as pale as death, you
said."

This is an atom: 
"Yes! yes! I can't understand it at all. When I insisted, he went so
far as to reproach me for not having killed all the insurgents. It was
yesterday that he ought to have written that article; to-day he'll get
us all butchered!"

This is an atom: 
Felicite was lost in amazement. What could have prompted Vuillet's
change of front? The idea of that wretched semi-sacristan carrying a
musket and firing on the ramparts of Plassans seemed to her one of the
most ridiculous things imaginable. There was certainly some determining
cause underlying all this which escaped her. Only one thing seemed
certain. Vuillet was too impudent in his abuse and too ready with his
valour, for the insurrectionary band to be really so near the town as
some people asserted.

This is an atom: 
"He's a spiteful fellow, I always said so," Rougon resumed, after
reading the article again. "He has only been waiting for an opportunity
to do us this injury. What a fool I was to leave him in charge of the
post-office!"

This is an atom: 
This last sentence proved a flash of light. Felicite started up quickly,
as though at some sudden thought. Then she put on a cap and threw a
shawl over her shoulders.

This is an atom: 
"Where are you going, pray?" her husband asked her with surprise. "It's
past nine o'clock."

This is an atom: 
"You go to bed," she replied rather brusquely, "you're not well; go and
rest yourself. I avail, etc.,
(Signed) HIOKI EKI.

This is an atom: 
His Excellency, Lou Tseng-tsiang, Minister of Foreign Affairs.

This is an atom: 
EXCHANGE OF NOTES RESPECTING THE OPENING OF PORTS IN SHANTUNG
--Note--
Peking, the 25th day of the 5th month of the 4th year of the Republic
of China.Never in his life had Vuillet felt so happy. Since he had been able
to slip his little fingers into the mail-bag he had enjoyed the most
exquisite pleasure, the pleasure of an inquisitive priest about to
relish the confessions of his penitents. All the sly blabbing, all the
vague chatter of sacristies resounded in his ears. He poked his long,
pale nose into the letters, gazed amorously at the superscriptions with
his suspicious eyes, sounded the envelopes just like little abbes sound
the souls of maidens. He experienced endless enjoyment, was titillated
by the most enticing temptation. The thousand secrets of Plassans lay
there. He held in his hand the honour of women, the fortunes of men,
and had only to break a seal to know as much as the grand vicar at the
cathedral who was the confidant of all the better people of the town.
Vuillet was one of those terribly bitter, frigid gossips, who worm out
everything, but never repeat what they hear, except by way of dealing
somebody a mortal blow. He had, consequently, often longed to dip his
arms into the public letter-box. Since the previous evening the private
room at the post-office had become a big confessional full of darkness
and mystery, in which he tasted exquisite rapture while sniffing at the
letters which exhaled veiled longings and quivering avowals. Moreover,
he carried on his work with consummate impudence. The crisis through
which the country was passing secured him perfect impunity. If some
letters should be delayed, or others should miscarry altogether, it
would be the fault of those villainous Republicans who were scouring
the country and interrupting all communication. The closing of the town
gates had for a moment vexed him, but he had come to an understanding
with Roudier, whereby the couriers were allowed to enter and bring the
mails direct to him without passing by the town-hall.

This is an atom: 
As a matter of fact he had only opened a few letters, the important
ones, those in which his keen scent divined some information which it
would be useful for him to know before anybody else. To the queries of
this correspondent (No. 14. p.
217.), who inquired for the best Treatise on the Microscope, and
where to purchase the most perfect instrument, we have received
many replies, all agreeing in one point--namely, that Mr.This pious
personage, in selecting the management of the post-office as his own
share of the spoils, had given proof of singular insight into the
situation.

This is an atom: 
When Madame Rougon entered, he was taking his choice of a heap of
letters and papers, under the pretext, no doubt, of classifying them.
He rose, with his humble smile, and offered her a seat; his reddened
eyelids blinking rather uneasily. But Felicite did not sit down; she
roughly exclaimed: "I want the letter."

This is an atom: 
At this Vuillet's eyes opened widely, with an expression of perfect
innocence.

This is an atom: 
"What letter, madame?" he asked.

This is an atom: 
"The letter you received this morning for my husband. Come, Monsieur
Vuillet, I'm in a hurry."

This is an atom: 
And as he stammered that he did not know, that he had not seen anything,
that it was very strange, Felicite continued in a covertly threatening
voice: "A letter from Paris, from my son, Eugene; you know what I mean,
don't you? I'll look for it myself."

***************************************************************************