Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document05340.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: kmeans
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/23
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 23/23

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿"You shall give me one thing though, if you will, sweet lady, that I may think of you often,
and have something to remind me of you; nay, you shall give me two things--one is a lock of
your soft brown hair, the other is a kiss."

This is an atom: 
Agatha undid the braid which held up her rich tresses, and severing from her head a lock of
the full length to which her hair grew, tied it in a portion of the braid, and put it into
the old woman's hand; then she stooped down and kissed her skinny lips, and having blessed
her, and bid her cherish the memory of her son with a holy love, as she herself did and always
would, Agatha. Larochejaquelin left the cabin, and returned to her father.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER VIII

This is an atom: 
"WHAT GOOD HAS THE WAR DONE?"

This is an atom: 
The raft which Chapeau had made was by degrees enlarged and improved, and the great mass of
the Vendeans passed the river slowly, but safely. As soon as the bulk of the people was over,
Henri Larochejaquelin left the southern shore, and crossed over to marshal the heterogeneous
troops on their route towards Laval, leaving Chapeau and Arthur Mondyon to superintend and
complete the transit of those who remained.

This is an atom: 
It was a beautiful October evening, and as the sun was setting, the two were standing close
to the edge of the water, congratulating themselves that their dirty and disagreeable toil
was well nigh over. From time to time stragglers were still coming down to the river-side,
begging for a passage, and imploring that they might not be abandoned to the cruelty of the
blues, and as they came they were shipped off on the raft. There were now, however, no more
than would make one fair load, and Chapeau and Arthur were determined that it was full time
for them both to leave the Anjou side of the river, and follow the main body of the army towards
Laval.

This is an atom: 
"We might remain here for ever, Chapeau, if we stayed for the very last of all," said the Chevalier,
as he jumped on the raft. "Come, man, get on, we've our number now, and we couldn't take more,
if they come. There's some one hallooing up there, and we'll leave the little boat for them.
Come, I want to get over and have a run on dry land, for I'm as cold as a stone. This living
like a duck, half in the water and half out, don't suit me at all. The next river we cross
over, I'll make Henri get another ferryman."

This is an atom: 
Chapeau still lingered on the shore, and putting his hand up to his ear, listened to the voice
of some one who was calling from a distance. It was too dark for him to distinguish any one,
but the voice of a woman hallooing loudly, but with difficulty, as though she were out of breath
with running, was plainly audible.

This is an atom: 
"If you mean to wait here all night, I don't," said the Chevalier, "so good night to you, and
if you don't get on, I'll push off without you."

This is an atom: 
"Stop a moment, M. Arthur, there's a woman there."

This is an atom: 
"I've no doubt there is--there are fifty women there--fifty hundred women, I dare say; but
we can't wait while they all drop in one by one. Don't be a fool, Jacques; is not there the
small boat left for them?"

This is an atom: 
Chapeau still listened. "Stop a moment, M. Arthur, for heaven's sake stop one moment," and
then jumping on to the raft, he clung hold of the rope, and moored it fast to the shore. "They're
friends of my own, M. Arthur; most particular friends, or I wouldn't ask to keep you. Don't
go now; after all we've gone through together, you won't leave my friends behind, if I go on
shore, will you, M. Arthur?"

This is an atom: 
"Oh, I'm a good comrade; if they're private friends, I'll wait all night. Only I hope there
ain't a great many of them."

This is an atom: 
"Only two; I think there are only two," and Chapeau once more jumped on shore, and ran to meet
his friends. He had not far to go, for the party was now close to the water's edge. As he had
supposed, it consisted only of two, an old man and a girl: Michael Stein and his daughter Annot.
Annot had been running; and dragging her father by the hand, had hallooed with all her breath,
for she had heard from some of those who still dared to trust themselves to the blues, that
the last boat was on the point of leaving the shore. The old man had disdained to halloo, and
had almost disdained to run; but he had suffered himself to be hurried into a shambling kind
of gait, and when he was met by Chapeau, he was almost as much out of breath as his daughter.

This is an atom: 
"Oh, oh! for mercy's sake--for heaven's sake--kind Sir, dear Sir," sobbed Annot, as she saw
a man approaching her; and then when he was near enough to her to be distinguished through
the evening gloom, she exclaimed:

This is an atom: 
"Mercy on us, mercy on us, its Jacques Chapeau!" and sank to the ground, as though she had
no further power to take care of herself now that she had found one who was bound to take care
of her.

This is an atom: 
"You're just in time, Michael Stein; thank God, you're just in time! Annot, come on, its only
a dozen yards to the raft, and we'll be off at once. Well, this is the luckiest chance: come
on, before a whole crowd are down upon us, and swamp us all."

This is an atom: 
"Oh me! oh me!" sobbed Annot, still sitting on the ground, as though she had not the slightest
intention of stirring another step that night: "to be left and deserted in this way by one's
friends--and one's brothers--and--and--one's--" she didn't finish the list, for she felt sure
that she had said enough to cut Chapeau to the inmost heart, if he still had a heart.

This is an atom: 
"Come, dearest girl, come; I'll explain it all by-and-bye. We have not a moment to spare. Come,
I'll lift you," and he stooped to raise her from the ground.

This is an atom: 
"Thank you, M. Chapeau, thank you, Sir; but pray leave me. I shall be better tomorrow morning;
that is, if I'm not dead, or killed, or worse. The blues are close behind us; ain't they, father?"

This is an atom: 
"Get up, Annot; get up, thou little fool, and don't trouble the man to carry thee," said Michael.
"If there be still a boat to take us, in God's name let us cross the river; for the blues are
truly in St. Florent, and after flying from them so far, it would be sore ill luck to be taken
now."

This is an atom: 
Chapeau, however, would not leave her to herself, but took her up bodily in his arms, and carrying
her down to the water's edge, put her on the raft. He and Michael soon followed, and the frail
vessel was hauled for the last time over into the island. The news that the enemy was already
in St. Florent soon passed from month to mouth, and each wretched emigrant congratulated himself
in silence that he had so far escaped from republican revenge. Many of them had still to sojourn
on the island for the night, but there they were comparatively safe; and Arthur, Chapeau, and
his friends, succeeded in gaining the opposite shore.

This is an atom: 
Poor Annot was truly in a bad state. When they heard that the ladies had left Chatillon, she
and. her father, and, indeed, all the inhabitants of Echanbroignes, felt that they could no
longer be safe in the village; and they had started off to follow the royalist army on foot
through the country. From place to place they had heard tidings, sometimes of one party, and
sometimes of another. The old man had borne the fatigue and dangers of the journey well; for,
though now old, he had been a hard-working man all his life, and was tough and seasoned in
his old age; but poor Annot had suffered dreadfully. The clothes she had brought with her were
nearly falling off her back; her feet were all but bare, and were cut and blistered with walking.
Grief and despair had taken the colour and roundness from her cheek, and she had lacked time
on her mournful journey to comb the pretty locks of which she was generally so proud.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
***************************************************************************