Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document04185.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: kmeans
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/116
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 116/116

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿
                 THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A.   F.R.S.

This is an atom: 
CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

This is an atom: 
TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A.  LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

This is an atom: 
(Unabridged)

This is an atom: 
WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

This is an atom: 
EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

This is an atom: 
HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

This is an atom: 
DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS
                            1660 N.S. COMPLETE

This is an atom: 
JANUARY
                                1659-60

This is an atom: 
[The year did not legally begin in England before the 25th March
     until the act for altering the style fixed the 1st of January as the
     first day of the year, and previous to 1752 the year extended from
     March 25th to the following March 24th.  Thus since 1752 we have
     been in the habit of putting the two dates for the months of January
     and February and March 1 to 24--in all years previous to 1752.
     Practically, however, many persons considered the year to commence
     with January 1st, as it will be seen Pepys did.  The 1st of January
     was considered as New Year's day long before Pepys's time.  The
     fiscal year has not been altered; and the national accounts are
     still reckoned from old Lady Day, which falls on the 6th of April.]

This is an atom: 
Blessed be God, at the end of the last year I was in very good health, without any sense of
my old pain, but upon taking of cold.

This is an atom: 
[Pepys was successfully cut for the stone on March 26th, 1658.  See
     March 26th below.  Although not suffering from this cause again
     until the end of his life, there are frequent references in the
     Diary to pain whenever he caught cold.  In a letter from Pepys to
     his nephew Jackson, April 8th, 1700, there is a reference to the
     breaking out three years before his death of the wound caused by the
     cutting for the stone: "It has been my calamity for much the
     greatest part of this time to have been kept bedrid, under an evil
     so rarely known as to have had it matter of universal surprise and
     with little less general opinion of its dangerousness; namely, that
     the cicatrice of a wound occasioned upon my cutting for the stone,
     without hearing anything of it in all this time, should after more
     than 40 years' perfect cure, break out again."  At the post-mortem
     examination a nest of seven stones, weighing four and a half ounces,
     was found in the left kidney, which was entirely ulcerated.]

This is an atom: 
I lived in Axe Yard,

This is an atom: 
[Pepys's house was on the south side of King Street, Westminster;
     it is singular that when he removed to a residence in the city, he
     should have settled close to another Axe Yard.  Fludyer Street
     stands on the site of Axe Yard, which derived its name from a great
     messuage or brewhouse on the west side of King Street, called "The
     Axe," and referred to in a document of the 23rd of Henry VIII--B.]

This is an atom: 
having my wife, and servant Jane, and no more in family than us three. My wife .  .  .  . gave
me hopes of her being with child, but on the last day of the year .  .  .  .[the hope was belied.]

This is an atom: 
[Ed. note: . . .  . are used to denote censored passages]

This is an atom: 
The condition of the State was thus; viz. the Rump, after being disturbed by my Lord Lambert,

This is an atom: 
[John Lambert, major-general in the Parliamentary army.  The title
     Lord was not his by right, but it was frequently given to the
     republican officers.  He was born in 1619, at Calton Hall, in the
     parish of Kirkby-in-Malham-Dale, in the West Riding of Yorkshire.
     In 1642 he was appointed captain of horse under Fairfax, and acted
     as major-general to Cromwell in 1650 during the war in Scotland.
     After this Parliament conferred on him a grant of lands in Scotland
     worth L1000 per annum.  He refused to take the oath of allegiance to
     Cromwell, for which the Protector deprived him of his commission.
     After Cromwell's death he tried to set up a military government.
     The Commons cashiered Lambert, Desborough, and other officers,
     October 12th, 1659, but Lambert retaliated by thrusting out the
     Commons, and set out to meet Monk.  His men fell away from him, and
     he was sent to the Tower, March 3rd, 1660, but escaped.  In 1662 he
     was tried on a charge of high treason and condemned, but his life
     was spared.  It is generally stated that he passed the remainder of
     his life in the island of Guernsey, but this is proved to be
     incorrect by a MS. in the Plymouth Athenaeum, entitled "Plimmouth
     Memoirs collected by James Yonge, 1684" This will be seen from the
     following extracts quoted by Mr. R. J. King, in "Notes and Queries,"
     "1667 Lambert the arch-rebel brought to this island [St. Nicholas,
     at the entrance of Plymouth harbour]."  "1683 Easter day Lambert
     that olde rebell dyed this winter on Plimmouth Island where he had
     been prisoner 15 years and more."]

This is an atom: 
was lately returned to sit again.  The officers of the Army all forced to yield.  Lawson

This is an atom: 
[Sir John Lawson, the son of a poor man at Hull, entered the navy as
     a common sailor, rose to the rank of admiral, and distinguished
     himself during the Protectorate.  Though a republican, he readily
     closed with the design of restoring the King.  He was vice-admiral
     under the Earl of Sandwich, and commanded the "London" in the
     squadron which conveyed Charles II. to England.  He was mortally
     wounded in the action with the Dutch off Harwich, June, 1665.  He
     must not be confounded with another John Lawson, the Royalist, of
     Brough Hall, in Yorkshire, who was created a Baronet by Charles II,
     July 6th, 1665.]

This is an atom: 
lies still in the river, and Monk--[George Monk, born 1608, created Duke of Albemarle, 1660,
married Ann Clarges, March, 1654, died January 3rd, 1676.]--is with his army in Scotland. 
Only my Lord Lambert is not yet come into the Parliament, nor is it expected that he will without
being forced to it.  The new Common Council of the City do speak very high; and had sent to
Monk their sword-bearer, to acquaint him with their desires for a free and full Parliament,
which is at present the desires, and the hopes, and expectation of all.  Twenty-two of the
old secluded members

This is an atom: 
["The City sent and invited him [Monk] to dine the next day at
     Guildhall, and there he declared for the members whom the army had
     forced away in year forty-seven and forty-eight, who were known by
     the names of secluded members."--Burnet's Hist. of his Own Time,
     book i.]

This is an atom: 
having been at the House-door the last week to demand entrance, but it was denied them; and
it is believed that [neither] they nor the people will be satisfied till the House be filled.
My own private condition very handsome, and esteemed rich, but indeed very poor; besides my
goods of my house, and my office, which at present is somewhat uncertain.  Mr. Downing master
of my office.

This is an atom: 
[George Downing was one of the Four Tellers of the Receipt of the
     Exchequer, and in his office Pepys was a clerk.  He was the son of
     Emmanuel Downing of the Inner Temple, afterwards of Salem,
     Massachusetts, and of Lucy, sister of Governor John Winthrop.  He is
     supposed to have been born in August, 1623.  He and his parents went
     to New England in 1638, and he was the second graduate of Harvard
     College.  He returned to England about 1645, and acted as Colonel
     Okey's chaplain before he entered into political life.  Anthony a
     Wood (who incorrectly describes him as the son of Dr. Calybute
     Downing, vicar of Hackney) calls Downing a sider with all times and
     changes: skilled in the common cant, and a preacher occasionally.
     He was sent by Cromwell to Holland in 1657, as resident there.  At
     the Restoration, he espoused the King's cause, and was knighted and
     elected M.P. for Morpeth, in 1661.  Afterwards, becoming
     Secretary to the Treasury and Commissioner of the Customs, he was in
     1663 created a Baronet of East Hatley, in Cambridgeshire, and was
     again sent Ambassador to Holland.  His grandson of the same name,
     who died in 1749, was the founder of Downing College, Cambridge.
     The title became extinct in 1764, upon the decease of Sir John
     Gerrard Downing, the last heir-male of the family.  Sir George
     Downing's character will be found in Lord Clarendon's "Life," vol.
     iii.  p. 4.  Pepys's opinion seems to be somewhat of a mixed kind.
     He died in July, 1684.]

This is an atom: 
Jan. 1st (Lord's day).  This morning (we living lately in the garret,) I rose, put on my suit
with great skirts, having not lately worn any other, clothes but them.  Went to Mr. Gunning's

This is an atom: 
[Peter Gunning, afterwards Master of St. John's College, Cambridge,
     and successively Bishop of Chichester and Ely.  He had continued to
     read the Liturgy at the chapel at Exeter House when the Parliament
     was most predominant, for which Cromwell often rebuked him.  Evelyn
     relates that on Christmas Day, 1657, the chapel was surrounded with
     soldiers, and the congregation taken prisoners, he and his wife
     being among them.  There are several notices of Dr. Gunning in
     Evelyn's Diary.  When he obtained the mastership of St. John's
     College upon the ejection of Dr. Tuckney, he allowed that
     Nonconformist divine a handsome annuity during his life.  He was a
     great controversialist, and a man of great reading.  Burnet says he
     "was a very honest sincere man, but of no sound judgment, and of no
     prudence in affairs" ("Hist. of his Own.  Time").  He died July 6th,
     1684, aged seventy-one.]

This is an atom: 
chapel at Exeter House, where he made a very good sermon upon these words:--"That in the fulness
of time God sent his Son, made of a woman," &c.; showing, that, by "made under the law," is
meant his circumcision, which is solemnized this day.  Dined at home in the garret, where my
wife dressed the remains of a turkey, and in the doing of it she burned her hand.  I staid
at home all the afternoon, looking over my accounts; then went with my wife to my father's,
and in going observed the great posts which the City have set up at the Conduit in Fleet-street.
Supt at my, father's, where in came Mrs. The. Turner--[Theophila Turner, daughter of Sergeant
John and Jane Turner, who married Sir Arthur Harris, Bart.  She died 1686.]--and Madam Morrice,
and supt with us.  After that my wife and I went home with them, and so to our own home.

This is an atom: 
2nd.  In the morning before I went forth old East brought me a dozen of bottles of sack, and
I gave him a shilling for his pains.  Then I went to Mr. Sheply,--[Shepley was a servant of
Admiral Sir Edward Montagu]--who was drawing of sack in the wine cellar to send to other places
as a gift from my Lord, and told me that my Lord had given him order to give me the dozen of
bottles.  Thence I went to the Temple to speak with Mr. Calthropp about the L60 due to my Lord,

This is an atom: 
[Sir Edward Montagu, born 1625, son of Sir Sidney Montagu, by
     Paulina, daughter of John Pepys of Cottenham, married Jemima,
     daughter of John Crew of Stene.  He died in action against the Dutch
     in Southwold Bay, May 28th, 1672.  The title of "My Lord" here
     applied to Montagu before he was created Earl of Sandwich is of the
     same character as that given to General Lambert.]

This is an atom: 
but missed of him, he being abroad.  Then I went to Mr. Crew's

This is an atom: 
[John Crew, born 1598, eldest son of Sir Thomas Crew, Sergeant-at-
     Law and Speaker of the House of Commons.  He sat for Brackley in the
     Long Parliament.  Created Baron Crew of Stene, in the county of
     Northampton, at the coronation of Charles II.  He married Jemima,
     daughter and co-heir of Edward Walgrave (or Waldegrave) of Lawford,
     Essex.  His house was in Lincoln's Inn Fields.  He died December
     12th, 1679.]

This is an atom: 
and borrowed L10 of Mr. Andrewes for my own use, and so went to my office, where there was
nothing to do.  Then I walked a great while in Westminster Hall, where I heard that Lambert
was coming up to London; that my Lord Fairfax

This is an atom: 
[Thomas, Lord Fairfax, Generalissimo of the Parliament forces.
     After the Restoration, he retired to his country seat, where he
     lived in private till his death, 1671.  In a volume (autograph) of
     Lord Fairfax's Poems, preserved in the British Museum, 11744, f. 42,
     the following lines occur upon the 30th of January, on which day the
     King was beheaded.  It is believed that they have never been
     printed.

This is an atom: 
"O let that day from time be bloted quitt,
               And beleef of 't in next age be waved,
               In depest silence that act concealed might,
               That so the creadet of our nation might be saved;
               But if the powre devine hath ordered this,
               His will's the law, and our must aquiess."

This is an atom: 
These wretched verses have obviously no merit; but they are curious
     as showing that Fairfax, who had refused to act as one of Charles
     I's judges; continued long afterwards to entertain a proper horror
     for that unfortunate monarch's fate.  It has recently been pointed
     out to me, that the lines were not originally composed by Fairfax,
     being only a poor translation of the spirited lines of Statius
     (Sylvarum lib. v.  cap. ii.  l. 88)

This is an atom: 
"Excidat illa dies aevo, ne postera credant
               Secula, nos certe taceamus; et obruta multa
               Nocte tegi propria patiamur crimina gentis."

This is an atom: 
These verses were first applied by the President de Thou to the
     massacre of St. Bartholomew, 1572; and in our day, by Mr. Pitt, in
     his memorable speech in the House of Commons, January, 1793, after
     the murder of Louis XVI.--B.]

This is an atom: 
was in the head of the Irish brigade, but it was not certain what he would declare for.  The
House was to-day upon finishing the act for the Council of State, which they did; and for the
indemnity to the soldiers; and were to sit again thereupon in the afternoon.  Great talk that
many places have declared for a free Parliament; and it is believed that they will be forced
to fill up the House with the old members.  From the Hall I called at home, and so went to
Mr. Crew's (my wife she was to go to her father's), thinking to have dined, but I came too
late, so Mr. Moore and I and another gentleman went out and drank a cup of ale together in
the new market, and there I eat some bread and cheese for my dinner.  After that Mr. Moore
and I went as far as Fleet-street together and parted, he going into the City, I to find Mr.
Calthrop, but failed again of finding him, so returned to Mr. Crew's again, and from thence
went along with Mrs. Jemimah

This is an atom: 
[Mrs. Jemimah, or Mrs. Jem, was Jemima, eldest daughter of Sir
     Edward Montagu.  At this time she and her sister, Mrs. Ann, seem to
     have been living alone with their maids in London, and Pepys's duty
     was to look after them.]

This is an atom: 
home, and there she taught me how to play at cribbage.  Then I went home, and finding my wife
gone to see Mrs. Hunt, I went to Will's,

This is an atom: 
[Pepys constantly visited "Will's" about this time; but this could
     not be the famous coffee-house in Covent Garden, because he mentions
     visiting there for the first time, February 3rd, 1663-64.  It was
     most probably the house of William Joyce, who kept a place of
     entertainment at Westminster (see Jan. 29th).]

This is an atom: 
and there sat with Mr. Ashwell talking and singing till nine o'clock, and so home, there, having
not eaten anything but bread and cheese, my wife cut me a slice of brawn which.  I received
from my Lady;--[Jemima, wife of Sir Edward Montagu, daughter of John Crew of Stene, afterwards
Lord Crew.]--which proves as good as ever I had any.  So to bed, and my wife had a very bad
night of it through wind and cold.

This is an atom: 
3rd.  I went out in the morning, it being a great frost, and walked to Mrs. Turner's

This is an atom: 
[Jane, daughter of John Pepys of South Creake, Norfolk, married to
     John Turner, Sergeant-at-law, Recorder of York; their only child,
     Theophila, frequently mentioned as The.  or Theoph., became the wife
     of Sir Arthur Harris, Bart., of Stowford, Devon, and died 1686,
     s.p.]

This is an atom: 
to stop her from coming to see me to-day, because of Mrs. Jem's corning, thence I went to the
Temple to speak with Mr. Calthrop, and walked in his chamber an hour, but could not see him,
so went to Westminster, where I found soldiers in my office to receive money, and paid it them.
At noon went home, where Mrs. Jem, her maid, Mr. Sheply, Hawly, and Moore dined with me on
a piece of beef and cabbage, and a collar of brawn.  We then fell to cards till dark, and then
I went home with Mrs. Jem, and meeting Mr. Hawly got him to bear me company to Chancery Lane,
where I spoke with Mr. Calthrop, he told me that Sir James Calthrop was lately dead, but that
he would write to his Lady, that the money may be speedily paid. Thence back to White Hall,
where I understood that the Parliament had passed the act for indemnity to the soldiers and
officers that would come in, in so many days, and that my Lord Lambert should have benefit
of the said act. They had also voted that all vacancies in the House, by the death of any of
the old members, shall be filled up; but those that are living shall not be called in.  Thence
I went home, and there found Mr. Hunt and his wife, and Mr. Hawly, who sat with me till ten
at night at cards, and so broke up and to bed.

This is an atom: 
4th.  Early came Mr. Vanly--[Mr Vanley appears to have been Pepys's landlord; he is mentioned
again in the Diary on September 20th, 1660.]--to me for his half-year's rent, which I had not
in the house, but took his man to the office and there paid him.  Then I went down into the
Hall and to Will's, where Hawly brought a piece of his Cheshire cheese, and we were merry with
it.  Then into the Hall again, where I met with the Clerk and Quarter Master of my Lord's troop,
and took them to the Swan' and gave them their morning's draft,

This is an atom: 
[It was not usual at this time to sit down to breakfast, but instead
     a morning draught was taken at a tavern.]

This is an atom: 
they being just come to town.  Mr. Jenkins shewed me two bills of exchange for money to receive
upon my Lord's and my pay.  It snowed hard all this morning, and was very cold, and my nose
was much swelled with cold. Strange the difference of men's talk!  Some say that Lambert must
of necessity yield up; others, that he is very strong, and that the Fifth-monarchy-men [will]
stick to him, if he declares for a free Parliament.  Chillington was sent yesterday to him
with the vote of pardon and indemnity from the Parliament.  From the Hall I came home, where
I found letters from Hinchinbroke

This is an atom: 
[Hinchinbroke was Sir Edward Montagu's seat, from which he
     afterwards took his second title.  Hinchinbroke House, so often
     mentioned in the Diary, stood about half a mile to the westward of
     the town of Huntingdon.  It was erected late in the reign of
     Elizabeth, by Sir Henry Cromwell, on the site of a Benedictine
     nunnery, granted at the Dissolution, with all its appurtenances, to
     his father, Richard Williams, who had assumed the name of Cromwell,
     and whose grandson, Sir Oliver, was the uncle and godfather of the
     Protector.  The knight, who was renowned for, his hospitality, had
     the honour of entertaining King James at Hinchinbroke, but, getting
     into pecuniary difficulties, was obliged to sell his estates, which
     were conveyed, July 28th, 1627, to Sir Sidney Montagu of Barnwell,
     father of the first Earl of Sandwich, in whose descendant they are
     still vested.  On the morning of the 22nd January, 1830, during the
     minority of the seventh Earl, Hinchinbroke was almost entirely
     destroyed by fire, but the pictures and furniture were mostly saved,
     and the house has been rebuilt in the Elizabethan style, and the
     interior greatly improved, under the direction of Edward Blore,
     Esq., R.A.--B.]

This is an atom: 
and news of Mr. Sheply's going thither the next week.  I dined at home, and from thence went
to Will's to Shaw, who promised me to go along with me to Atkinson's about some money, but
I found him at cards with Spicer and D. Vines, and could not get him along with me.  I was
vext at this, and went and walked in the Hall, where I heard that the Parliament spent this
day in fasting and prayer; and in the afternoon came letters from the North, that brought certain
news that my Lord Lambent his forces were all forsaking him, and that he was left with only
fifty horse, and that he did now declare for the Parliament himself; and that my Lord Fairfax
did also rest satisfied, and had laid down his arms, and that what he had done was only to
secure the country against my Lord Lambert his raising of money, and free quarter.  I went
to Will's again, where I found them still at cards, and Spicer had won 14s. of Shaw and Vines.
Then I spent a little time with G. Vines and Maylard at Vines's at our viols.

This is an atom: 
[It was usual to have a "chest of viols," which consisted of six,
     viz., two trebles, two tenors, and two basses (see note in North's
     "Memoirs of Musick," ed.  Rimbault, p. 70).  The bass viol was also
     called the 'viola da gamba', because it was held between the legs.]

This is an atom: 
So home, and from thence to Mr. Hunt's, and sat with them and Mr. Hawly at cards till ten at
night, and was much made of by them.  Home and so to bed, but much troubled with my nose, which
was much swelled.

This is an atom: 
5th.  I went to my office, where the money was again expected from the Excise office, but none
brought, but was promised to be sent this afternoon.  I dined with Mr. Sheply, at my Lord's
lodgings, upon his turkey-pie.  And so to my office again; where the Excise money was brought,
and some of it told to soldiers till it was dark.  Then I went home, and after writing a letter
to my Lord and told him the news that the Parliament hath this night voted that the members
that were discharged from sitting in the years 1648 and 49, were duly discharged; and that
there should be writs issued presently for the calling of others in their places, and that
Monk and Fairfax were commanded up to town, and that the Prince's lodgings were to be provided
for Monk at Whitehall. Then my wife and I, it being a great frost, went to Mrs. Jem's, in expectation
to eat a sack-posset, but Mr. Edward--[Edward Montage, son of Sir Edward, and afterwards Lord
Hinchinbroke.]--not coming it was put off; and so I left my wife playing at cards with her,
and went myself with my lanthorn to Mr. Fage, to consult concerning my nose, who told me it
was nothing but cold, and after that we did discourse concerning public business; and he told
me it is true the City had not time enough to do much, but they are resolved to shake off the
soldiers; and that unless there be a free Parliament chosen, he did believe there are half
the Common Council will not levy any money by order of this Parliament. From thence I went
to my father's, where I found Mrs. Ramsey and her grandchild, a pretty girl, and staid a while
and talked with them and my mother, and then took my leave, only heard of an invitation to
go to dinner to-morrow to my cosen Thomas Pepys.--[Thomas Pepys, probably the son of Thomas
Pepys of London (born, 1595), brother of Samuel's father, John Pepys.]--I went back to Mrs.
Jem, and took my wife and Mrs. Sheply, and went home.

This is an atom: 
6th.  This morning Mr. Sheply and I did eat our breakfast at Mrs. Harper's, (my brother John'
being with me,)

This is an atom: 
[John Pepys was born in 1641, and his brother Samuel took great
     interest in his welfare, but he did not do any great credit to his
     elder.]

This is an atom: 
upon a cold turkey-pie and a goose.  From thence I went to my office, where we paid money to
the soldiers till one o'clock, at which time we made an end, and I went home and took my wife
and went to my cosen, Thomas Pepys, and found them just sat down to dinner, which was very
good; only the venison pasty was palpable beef, which was not handsome. After dinner I took
my leave, leaving my wife with my cozen Stradwick,--[Elizabeth, daughter of Richard Pepys,
Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, and wife of Thomas Stradwick.]--and went to Westminster to Mr.
Vines, where George and I fiddled a good while, Dick and his wife (who was lately brought to
bed) and her sister being there, but Mr. Hudson not coming according to his promise, I went
away, and calling at my house on the wench, I took her and the lanthorn with me to my cosen
Stradwick, where, after a good supper, there being there my father, mother, brothers, and sister,
my cosen Scott and his wife, Mr. Drawwater and his wife, and her brother, Mr. Stradwick, we
had a brave cake brought us, and in the choosing, Pall was Queen and Mr. Stradwick was King.
After that my wife and I bid adieu and came home, it being still a great frost.

This is an atom: 
7th.  At my office as I was receiving money of the probate of wills, in came Mrs. Turner, Theoph.,
Madame Morrice, and Joyce, and after I had done I took them home to my house and Mr. Hawly
came after, and I got a dish of steaks and a rabbit for them, while they were playing a game
or two at cards.  In the middle of our dinner a messenger from Mr. Downing came to fetch me
to him, so leaving Mr. Hawly there, I went and was forced to stay till night in expectation
of the French Embassador, who at last came, and I had a great deal of good discourse with one
of his gentlemen concerning the reason of the difference between the zeal of the French and
the Spaniard.  After he was gone I went home, and found my friends still at cards, and after
that I went along with them to Dr. Whores (sending my wife to Mrs. Jem's to a sack-posset),
where I heard some symphony and songs of his own making, performed by Mr. May, Harding, and
Mallard. Afterwards I put my friends into a coach, and went to Mrs. Jem's, where I wrote a
letter to my Lord by the post, and had my part of the posset which was saved for me, and so
we went home, and put in at my Lord's lodgings, where we staid late, eating of part of his
turkey-pie, and reading of Quarles' Emblems. So home and to bed.

This is an atom: 
8th (Sunday).  In the morning I went to Mr. Gunning's, where a good sermon, wherein he showed
the life of Christ, and told us good authority for us to believe that Christ did follow his
father's trade, and was a carpenter till thirty years of age.  From thence to my father's to
dinner, where I found my wife, who was forced to dine there, we not having one coal of fire
in the house, and it being very hard frosty weather.  In the afternoon my father, he going
to a man's to demand some money due to my Aunt Bells my wife and I went to Mr. Mossum's, where
a strange doctor made a very good sermon.  From thence sending my wife to my father's, I went
to Mrs. Turner's, and staid a little while, and then to my father's, where I found Mr. Sheply,
and after supper went home together.  Here I heard of the death of Mr. Palmer, and that he
was to be buried at Westminster tomorrow.

This is an atom: 
9th.  For these two or three days I have been much troubled with thoughts how to get money
to pay them that I have borrowed money of, by reason of my money being in my uncle's hands.
I rose early this morning, and looked over and corrected my brother John's speech, which he
is to make the next apposition,--[Declamations at St. Paul's School, in which there were opponents
and respondents.]--and after that I went towards my office, and in my way met with W. Simons,
Muddiman, and Jack Price, and went with them to Harper's and in many sorts of talk I staid
till two of the clock in the afternoon.  I found Muddiman a good scholar, an arch rogue; and
owns that though he writes new books for the Parliament, yet he did declare that he did it
only to get money; and did talk very basely of many of them.  Among other things, W. Simons
told me how his uncle Scobel was on Saturday last called to the bar, for entering in the journal
of the House, for the year 1653, these words: "This day his Excellence the Lord General Cromwell
dissolved this House;" which words the Parliament voted a forgery, and demanded of him how
they came to be entered.  He answered that they were his own handwriting, and that he did it
by virtue of his office, and the practice of his predecessor; and that the intent of the practice
was to--let posterity know how such and such a Parliament was dissolved, whether by the command
of the King, or by their own neglect, as the last House of Lords was; and that to this end,
he had said and writ that it was dissolved by his Excellence the Lord G[eneral]; and that for
the word dissolved, he never at the time did hear of any other term; and desired pardon if
he would not dare to make a word himself when it was six years after, before they came themselves
to call it an interruption; but they were so little satisfied with this answer, that they did
chuse a committee to report to the House, whether this crime of Mr. Scobell's did come within
the act of indemnity or no. Thence I went with Muddiman to the Coffee-House, and gave 18d.
to be entered of the Club.  Thence into the Hall, where I heard for certain that Monk was coming
to London, and that Bradshaw's 2 lodgings were preparing for him.  Thence to Mrs. Jem's, and
found her in bed, and she was afraid that it would prove the small-pox. Thence back to Westminster
Hall, where I heard how Sir H. Vane--[Sir Harry Vane the younger, an inflexible republican.
He was executed in 1662, on a charge of conspiring the death of Charles I.]--was this day voted
out of the House, and to sit no more there; and that he would retire himself to his house at
Raby, as also all the rest of the nine officers that had their commissions formerly taken away
from them, were commanded to their farthest houses from London during the pleasure of the Parliament.
Here I met with the Quarter Master of my Lord's troop, and his clerk Mr. Jenings, and took
them home, and gave them a bottle of wine, and the remainder of my collar of brawn; and so
good night.  After that came in Mr. Hawly, who told me that I was mist this day at my office,
and that to-morrow I must pay all the money that I have, at which I was put to a great loss
how I should get money to make up my cash, and so went to bed in great trouble.

This is an atom: 
10th.  Went out early, and in my way met with Greatorex,--[Ralph Greatorex, the well-known
mathematical instrument maker of his day.  He is frequently mentioned by Pepys.]--and at an
alehouse he showed me the first sphere of wire that ever he made, and indeed it was very pleasant;
thence to Mr. Crew's, and borrowed L10, and so to my office, and was able to pay my money.
Thence into the Hall, and meeting the Quarter Master, Jenings, and Captain Rider, we four went
to a cook's to dinner.  Thence Jenings and I into London (it being through heat of the sun
a great thaw and dirty) to show our bills of return, and coming back drank a pint of wine at
the Star in Cheapside.  So to Westminster, overtaking Captain Okeshott in his silk cloak, whose
sword got hold of many people in walking.  Thence to the Coffee-house, where were a great confluence
of gentlemen; viz.  Mr. Harrington, Poultny, chairman, Gold, Dr, Petty; &c., where admirable
discourse till at night.  Thence with Doling to Mother Lams, who told me how this day Scott

This is an atom: 
[Thomas Scott, M.P., was made Secretary of State to the Commonwealth
     on the 17th of this same January.  He signed the death warrant of
     Charles I., for which he was executed at Charing Cross, October
     16th, 1660.  He gloried in his offence, and desired to have written
     on his tombstone, "Thomas Scott who adjudged to death the late
     king."]

This is an atom: 
was made Intelligencer, and that the rest of the members that were objected against last night,
their business was to be heard this day se'nnight.  Thence I went home and wrote a letter,
and went to Harper's, and staid there till Tom carried it to the postboy at Whitehall.  So
home to bed.

This is an atom: 
11th.  Being at Will's with Captain Barker, who hath paid me L300 this morning at my office,
in comes my father, and with him I walked, and leave him at W. Joyce's, and went myself to
Mr. Crew's, but came too late to dine, and therefore after a game at shittle-cocks--[The game
of battledore and shuttlecock was formerly much played even in tennis courts, and was a very
violent game.]--with Mr. Walgrave and Mr. Edward, I returned to my father, and taking him from
W. Joyce's, who was not abroad himself, we inquired of a porter, and by his direction went
to an alehouse, where after a cup or two we parted.  I went towards London, and in my way went
in to see Crowly, who was now grown a very great loon and very tame. Thence to Mr. Steven's
with a pair of silver snuffers, and bought a pair of shears to cut silver, and so homeward
again.  From home I went to see Mrs. Jem, who was in bed, and now granted to have the small-pox.
Back again, and went to the Coffee-house, but tarried not, and so home.

This is an atom: 
12th.  I drink my morning at Harper's with Mr. Sheply and a seaman, and so to my office, where
Captain Holland  came to see me, and appointed a meeting in the afternoon.  Then wrote letters
to Hinchinbroke and sealed them at Will's, and after that went home, and thence to the Half
Moon, where I found the Captain and Mr. Billingsly and Newman, a barber, where we were very
merry, and had the young man that plays so well on the Welsh harp.  Billingsly paid for all.
Thence home, and finding my letters this day not gone by the carrier I new sealed them, but
my brother Tom coming we fell into discourse about my intention to feast the Joyces.  I sent
for a bit of meat for him from the cook's, and forgot to send my letters this night.  So I
went to bed, and in discourse broke to my wife what my thoughts were concerning my design of
getting money by, &c.

This is an atom: 
13th.  Coming in the morning to my office, I met with Mr. Fage and took him to the Swan?  He
told me how high Haselrigge, and Morly, the last night began at my Lord Mayor's to exclaim
against the City of London, saying that they had forfeited their charter.  And how the Chamberlain
of the City did take them down, letting them know how much they were formerly beholding to
the City, &c.  He also told me that Monk's letter that came to them by the sword-bearer was
a cunning piece, and that which they did not much trust to; but they were resolved to make
no more applications to the Parliament, nor to pay any money, unless the secluded members be
brought in, or a free Parliament chosen.  Thence to my office, where nothing to do.  So to
Will's with Mr. Pinkney, who invited me to their feast at his Hall the next Monday.  Thence
I went home and took my wife and dined at Mr. Wades, and after that we went and visited Catan.
From thence home again, and my wife was very unwilling to let me go forth, but with some discontent
would go out if I did, and I going forth towards Whitehall, I saw she followed me, and so I
staid and took her round through Whitehall, and so carried her home angry.  Thence I went to
Mrs. Jem, and found her up and merry, and that it did not prove the small-pox, but only the
swine-pox; so I played a game or two at cards with her.  And so to Mr. Vines, where he and
I and Mr. Hudson played half-a-dozen things, there being there Dick's wife and her sister.
After that I went home and found my wife gone abroad to Mr. Hunt's, and came in a little after
me.--So to bed.

This is an atom: 
14th.  Nothing to do at our office.  Thence into the Hall, and just as I was going to dinner
from Westminster Hall with Mr. Moore (with whom I had been in the lobby to hear news, and had
spoke with Sir Anthony Ashley Cooper about my Lord's lodgings) to his house, I met with Captain
Holland, who told me that he hath brought his wife to my house, so I posted home and got a
dish of meat for them.  They staid with me all the afternoon, and went hence in the evening.
Then I went with my wife, and left her at market, and went myself to the Coffee-house, and
heard exceeding good argument against Mr. Harrington's assertion, that overbalance of propriety
[i.e., property] was the foundation of government.  Home, and wrote to Hinchinbroke, and sent
that and my other letter that missed of going on Thursday last.  So to bed.

This is an atom: 
15th.  Having been exceedingly disturbed in the night with the barking of a dog of one of our
neighbours that I could not sleep for an hour or two, I slept late, and then in the morning
took physic, and so staid within all day.  At noon my brother John came to me, and I corrected
as well as I could his Greek speech to say the Apposition, though I believe he himself was
as well able to do it as myself.  After that we went to read in the great Officiale about the
blessing of bells in the Church of Rome. After that my wife and I in pleasant discourse till
night, then I went to supper, and after that to make an end of this week's notes in this book,
and so to bed.  It being a cold day and a great snow my physic did not work so well as it should
have done.

This is an atom: 
16th.  In the morning I went up to Mr. Crew's, and at his bedside he gave me direction to go
to-morrow with Mr. Edward to Twickenham, and likewise did talk to me concerning things of state;
and expressed his mind how just it was that the secluded members should come to sit again.
I went from thence, and in my way went into an alehouse and drank my morning draft with Matthew
Andrews and two or three more of his friends, coachmen.  And of one of them I did hire a coach
to carry us to-morrow to Twickenham. From thence to my office, where nothing to do; but Mr.
Downing he came and found me all alone; and did mention to me his going back into Holland,
and did ask me whether I would go or no, but gave me little encouragement, but bid me consider
of it; and asked me whether I did not think that Mr. Hawly could perform the work of my office
alone or no.  I confess I was at a great loss, all the day after, to bethink myself how to
carry this business.  At noon, Harry Ethall came to me and went along with Mr. Maylard by coach
as far as Salsbury Court, and there we set him down, and we went to the Clerks, where we came
a little too late, but in a closet we had a very good dinner by Mr. Pinkny's courtesy, and
after dinner we had pretty good singing, and one, Hazard, sung alone after the old fashion,
which was very much cried up, but I did not like it.  Thence we went to the Green Dragon, on
Lambeth Hill, both the Mr. Pinkney's, Smith, Harrison, Morrice, that sang the bass, Sheply
and I, and there we sang of all sorts of things, and I ventured with good success upon things
at first sight, and after that I played on my flageolet, and staid there till nine o'clock,
very merry and drawn on with one song after another till it came to be so late.  After that
Sheply, Harrison and myself, we went towards Westminster on foot, and at the Golden Lion, near
Charing Cross, we went in and drank a pint of wine, and so parted, and thence home, where I
found my wife and maid a-washing. I staid up till the bell-man came by with his bell just under
my window as I was writing of this very line, and cried, "Past one of the clock, and a cold,
frosty, windy morning."  I then went to bed, and left my wife and the maid a-washing still.

This is an atom: 
17th.  Early I went to Mr. Crew's, and having given Mr. Edward money to give the servants,
I took him into the coach that waited for us and carried him to my house, where the coach waited
for me while I and the child went to Westminster Hall, and bought him some pictures.  In the
Hall I met Mr. Woodfine, and took him to Will's and drank with him. Thence the child and I
to the coach, where my wife was ready, and so we went towards Twickenham.  In our way, at Kensington
we understood how that my Lord Chesterfield had killed another gentleman about half an hour
before, and was fled.

This is an atom: 
[Philip Stanhope, second Earl of Chesterfield, ob. 1713, act. suae
     80.  We learn, from the memoir prefixed to his "Printed
     Correspondence," that he fought three duels, disarming and wounding
     his first and second antagonists, and killing the third.  The name
     of the unfortunate gentleman who fell on this occasion was Woolly.
     Lord Chesterfield, absconding, went to Breda, where he obtained the
     royal pardon from Charles II.  He acted a busy part in the eventful
     times in which he lived, and was remarkable for his steady adherence
     to the Stuarts.  Lord Chesterfield's letter to Charles II., and the
     King's answer granting the royal pardon, occur in the Correspondence
     published by General Sir John Murray, in 1829.

This is an atom: 
"Jan. 17th, 1659.  The Earl of Chesterfield and Dr. Woolly's son of
     Hammersmith, had a quarrel about a mare of eighteen pounds price;
     the quarrel would not be reconciled, insomuch that a challenge
     passed between them.  They fought a duel on the backside of Mr.
     Colby's house at Kensington, where the Earl and he had several
     passes.  The Earl wounded him in two places, and would fain have
     then ended, but the stubbornness and pride of heart of Mr. Woolly
     would not give over, and the next pass [he] was killed on the spot.
     The Earl fled to Chelsea, and there took water and escaped.  The
     jury found it chance-medley."--Rugge's "Diurnal," Addit  MSS.,
     British Museum.--B.]

This is an atom: 
We went forward and came about one of the clock to Mr. Fuller's, but he was out of town, so
we had a dinner there, and I gave the child 40s. to give to the two ushers.  After that we
parted and went homewards, it being market day at Brainford [Brentford].  I set my wife down
and went with the coach to Mr. Crew's, thinking to have spoke with Mr. Moore and Mrs. Jem,
he having told me the reason of his melancholy was some unkindness from her after so great
expressions of love, and how he had spoke to her friends and had their consent, and that he
would desire me to take an occasion of speaking with her, but by no means not to heighten her
discontent or distaste whatever it be, but to make it up if I can. But he being out of doors,
I went away and went to see Mrs. Jem, who was now very well again, and after a game or two
at cards, I left her.  So I went to the Coffee Club, and heard very good discourse; it was
in answer to Mr. Harrington's answer, who said that the state of the Roman government was not
a settled government, and so it was no wonder that the balance of propriety [i.e., property]
was in one hand, and the command in another, it being therefore always in a posture of war;
but it was carried by ballot, that it was a steady government, though it is true by the voices
it had been carried before that it was an unsteady government; so to-morrow it is to be proved
by the opponents that the balance lay in one hand, and the government in another.  Thence I
went to Westminster, and met Shaw and Washington,  who told me how this day Sydenham

This is an atom: 
[Colonel William Sydenham had been an active officer during the
     Civil Wars, on the Parliament side; M.P. for Dorsetshire, Governor
     of Melcombe, and one of the Committee of Safety.  He was the elder
     brother of the celebrated physician of that name.--B.]

This is an atom: 
was voted out of the House for sitting any more this Parliament, and that Salloway was voted
out likewise and sent to the Tower, during the pleasure of the House.  Home and wrote by the
Post, and carried to Whitehall, and coming back turned in at Harper-'s, where Jack Price was,
and I drank with him and he told me, among other, things, how much the Protector

This is an atom: 
[Richard Cromwell, third son of Oliver Cromwell, born October 4th,
     1626, admitted a member of Lincoln's Inn, May 27th, 1647, fell into
     debt and devoted himself to hunting and field sports.  His
     succession to his father as Protector was universally accepted at
     first, but the army soon began to murmur because he was not a
     general.  Between the dissensions of various parties he fell, and
     the country was left in a state of anarchy: He went abroad early in
     the summer of 1660, and lived abroad for some years, returning to
     England in 1680.  After his fall he bore the name of John Clarke.
     Died at Cheshunt, July 12th, 1712.]

This is an atom: 
is altered, though he would seem to bear out his trouble very well, yet he is scarce able to
talk sense with a man; and how he will say that "Who should a man trust, if he may not trust
to a brother and an uncle;" and "how much those men have to answer before God Almighty, for
their playing the knave with him as they did."  He told me also, that there was; L100,000 offered,
and would have been taken for his restitution, had not the Parliament come in as they did again;
and that he do believe that the Protector will live to give a testimony of his valour and revenge
yet before he dies, and that the Protector will say so himself sometimes. Thence I went home,
it being late and my wife in bed.

This is an atom: 
18th.  To my office and from thence to Will's, and there Mr. Sheply brought me letters from
the carrier and so I went home.  After that to Wilkinson's, where we had a dinner for Mr. Talbot,
Adams, Pinkny and his son, but his son did not come.  Here we were very merry, and while I
was here Mr. Fuller came thither and staid a little, while.

This is an atom: 
After that we all went to my Lord's, whither came afterwards Mr. Harrison, and by chance seeing
Mr. Butler--[Mr. Butler is usually styled by Pepys Mons. l'Impertinent.]--coming by I called
him in and so we sat drinking a bottle of wine till night.  At which time Mistress Ann--[Probably
Mrs. (afterwards Lady) Anne Montagu, daughter of Sir Edward Montagu, and sister to Mrs. Jem.]--came
with the key of my Lord's study for some things, and so we all broke up and after I had gone
to my house and interpreted my Lord's letter by his character--[The making of ciphers was a
popular amusement about this time.  Pepys made several for Montagu, Downing, and others.]--I
came to her again and went with her to her lodging and from thence to Mr. Crew's, where I advised
with him what to do about my Lord's lodgings and what answer to give to Sir Ant. Cooper and
so I came home and to bed.  All the world is at a loss to think what Monk will do: the City
saying that he will be for them, and the Parliament saying he will be for them.

This is an atom: 
19th.  This morning I was sent for to Mr. Downing, and at his bed side he told me, that he
had a kindness for me, and that he thought that he had done me one; and that was, that he had
got me to be one of the Clerks of the Council; at which I was a little stumbled, and could
not tell what to do, whether to thank him or no; but by and by I did; but not very heartily,
for I feared that his doing of it was but only to ease himself of the salary which he gives
me.  After that Mr. Sheply staying below all this time for me we went thence and met Mr. Pierce,

This is an atom: 
[Pepys had two friends named Pierce, one the surgeon and the other
     the purser; he usually (but not always) distinguishes them.  The one
     here alluded to was probably the surgeon, and husband of pretty Mrs.
     Pierce.  After the Restoration James Pearse or Pierce became Surgeon
     to the Duke of York, and he was also Surgeon-General of the Fleet.]

This is an atom: 
so at the Harp and Ball drank our morning draft and so to Whitehall where I met with Sir Ant.
Cooper and did give him some answer from my Lord and he did give us leave to keep the lodgings
still.  And so we did determine thereupon that Mr. Sheply might now go into the country and
would do so to-morrow.  Back I went by Mr. Downing's order and staid there till twelve o'clock
in expectation of one to come to read some writings, but he came not, so I staid all alone
reading the answer of the Dutch Ambassador to our State, in answer to the reasons of my Lord's
coming home, which he gave for his coming, and did labour herein to contradict my Lord's arguments
for his coming home.  Thence to my office and so with Mr. Sheply and Moore, to dine upon a
turkey with Mrs. Jem, and after that Mr. Moore and I went to the French Ordinary, where Mr.
Downing this day feasted Sir Arth. Haselrigge, and a great many more of the Parliament, and
did stay to put him in mind of me.  Here he gave me a note to go and invite some other members
to dinner tomorrow.  So I went to White Hall, and did stay at Marsh's, with Simons, Luellin,
and all the rest of the Clerks of the Council, who I hear are all turned out, only the two
Leighs, and they do all tell me that my name was mentioned the last night, but that nothing
was done in it.  Hence I went and did leave some of my notes at the lodgings of the members
and so home.  To bed.

This is an atom: 
20th.  In the morning I went to Mr. Downing's bedside and gave him an account what I had done
as to his guests, land I went thence to my Lord Widdrington who I met in the street, going
to seal the patents for the judges to-day, and so could not come to dinner.  I called upon
Mr. Calthrop about the money due to my Lord.  Here I met with Mr. Woodfine and drank with him
at the Sun in Chancery Lane and so to Westminster Hall, where at the lobby I spoke with the
rest of my guests and so to my office. At noon went by water with Mr. Maylard and Hales to
the Swan in Fish Street at our Goal Feast, where we were very merry at our Jole of Ling, and
from thence after a great and good dinner Mr. Falconberge would go drink a cup of ale at a
place where I had like to have shot at a scholar that lay over the house of office.  Thence
calling on Mr. Stephens and Wootton (with whom I drank) about business of my Lord's I went
to the Coffee Club where there was nothing done but choosing of a Committee for orders.  Thence
to Westminster Hall where Mrs. Lane and the rest of the maids had their white scarfs, all having
been at the burial of a young bookseller in the Hall.

This is an atom: 
[These stationers and booksellers, whose shops disfigured
     Westminster Hall down to a late period, were a privileged class.
     In the statutes for appointing licensers and regulating the press,
     there is a clause exempting them from the pains and penalties of
     these obnoxious laws.]

This is an atom: 
Thence to Mr. Sheply's and took him to my house and drank with him in order to his going to-morrow.
So parted and I sat up late making up my accounts before he go.  This day three citizens of
London went to meet Monk from the Common Council!

This is an atom: 
"Jan. 20th.  Then there went out of the City, by desire of the Lord
     Mayor and Court of Aldermen, Alderman Fowke and Alderman Vincett,
     alias Vincent, and Mr. Broomfield, to compliment General Monk, who
     lay at Harborough Town, in Leicestershire."

This is an atom: 
"Jan. 21st.  Because the Speaker was sick, and Lord General Monk so
     near London, and everybody thought that the City would suffer for
     their affronts to the soldiery, and because they had sent the sword-
     bearer to, the General without the Parliament's consent, and the
     three Aldermen were gone to give him the welcome to town, these four
     lines were in almost everybody's mouth:

This is an atom: 
"Monk under a hood, not well understood,
                    The City pull in their horns;
                    The Speaker is out, and sick of the gout,
                    And the Parliament sit upon thorns."
                    --Rugge's 'Diurnal.'--B."

This is an atom: 
21st.  Up early in finishing my accounts and writing to my Lord and from thence to my Lord's
and took leave of Mr. Sheply and possession of all the keys and the house.  Thence to my office
for some money to pay Mr. Sheply and sent it him by the old man.  I then went to Mr. Downing
who chid me because I did not give him notice of some of his guests failed him but I told him
that I sent our porter to tell him and he was not within, but he told me that he was within
till past twelve o'clock.  So the porter or he lied.  Thence to my office where nothing to
do.  Then with Mr. Hawly, he and I went to Mr. Crew's and dined there.  Thence into London,
to Mr. Vernon's and I received my L25 due by bill for my troopers' pay.  Then back again to
Steadman's.  At the Mitre, in Fleet street, in our way calling on Mr. Fage, who told me how
the City have some hopes of Monk. Thence to the Mitre, where I drank a pint of wine, the house
being in fitting for Banister to come hither from Paget's. Thence to Mrs. Jem and gave her
L5.  So home and left my money and to Whitehall where Luellin and I drank and talked together
an hour at Marsh's and so up to the clerks' room, where poor Mr. Cook, a black man, that is
like to be put out of his clerk's place, came and railed at me for endeavouring to put him
out and get myself in, when I was already in a good condition.  But I satisfied him and after
I had wrote a letter there to my Lord, wherein I gave him an account how this day Lenthall
took his chair again, and [the House] resolved a declaration to be brought in on Monday next
to satisfy the world what they intend to do. So home and to bed.

This is an atom: 
22nd.  I went in the morning to Mr. Messum's, where I met with W. Thurburn and sat with him
in his pew.  A very eloquent sermon about the duty of all to give good example in our lives
and conversation, which I fear he himself was most guilty of not doing.  After sermon, at the
door by appointment my wife met me, and so to my father's to dinner, where we had not been
to my shame in a fortnight before.  After dinner my father shewed me a letter from Mr. Widdrington,
of Christ's College, in Cambridge, wherein he do express very great kindness for my brother,
and my father intends that my brother shall go to him.  To church in the afternoon to Mr. Herring,
where a lazy poor sermon.  And so home with Mrs. Turner and sitting with her a while we went
to my father's where we supt very merry, and so home.  This day I began to put on buckles to
my shoes, which I have bought yesterday of Mr. Wotton.

This is an atom: 
23rd.  In the morning called out to carry L20 to Mr. Downing, which I did and came back, and
finding Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, I took him to the Axe and gave him his morning draft.  Thence
to my office and there did nothing but make up my balance.  Came home and found my wife dressing
of the girl's head, by which she was made to look very pretty.  I went out and paid Wilkinson
what I did owe him, and brought a piece of beef home for dinner.  Thence I went out and paid
Waters, the vintner, and went to see Mrs. Jem, where I found my Lady Wright, but Scott was
so drunk that he could not be seen.  Here I staid and made up Mrs. Ann's bills, and played
a game or two at cards, and thence to Westminster Hall, it being very dark.  I paid Mrs. Michell,
my bookseller, and back to Whitehall, and in the garden, going through to the Stone Gallery--[The
Stone Gallery was a long passage between the Privy Garden and the river.  It led from the Bowling
Green to the Court of the Palace]--I fell into a ditch, it being very dark.  At the Clerk's
chamber I met with Simons and Luellin, and went with them to Mr. Mount's chamber at the Cock
Pit, where we had some rare pot venison, and ale to abundance till almost twelve at night,
and after a song round we went home.  This day the Parliament sat late, and resolved of the
declaration to be printed for the people's satisfaction, promising them a great many good things.

This is an atom: 
24th.  In the morning to my office, where, after I had drank my morning draft at Will's with
Ethell and Mr. Stevens, I went and told part of the excise money till twelve o'clock, and then
called on my wife and took her to Mr. Pierces, she in the way being exceedingly troubled with
a pair of new pattens, and I vexed to go so slow, it being late.  There when we came we found
Mrs. Carrick very fine, and one Mr. Lucy, who called one another husband and wife, and after
dinner a great deal of mad stir. There was pulling off Mrs. bride's and Mr. bridegroom's ribbons;

This is an atom: 
[The scramble for ribbons, here mentioned by Pepys in connection
     with weddings (see also January 26th, 1660-61, and February 8th,
     1662-3), doubtless formed part of the ceremony of undressing the
     bridegroom, which, as the age became more refined, fell into disuse.
     All the old plays are silent on the custom; the earliest notice of
     which occurs in the old ballad of the wedding of Arthur O'Bradley,
     printed in the Appendix to "Robin Hood," 1795, where we read--

This is an atom: 
"Then got they his points and his garters,
                    And cut them in pieces like martyrs;
                    And then they all did play
                    For the honour of Arthur O'Bradley."

This is an atom: 
Sir Winston Churchill also observes ("Divi Britannici," p. 340) that
     James I. was no more troubled at his querulous countrymen robbing
     him than a bridegroom at the losing of his points and garters.  Lady
     Fanshawe, in her "Memoirs," says, that at the nuptials of Charles
     II. and the Infanta, "the Bishop of London declared them married in
     the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and then they
     caused the ribbons her Majesty wore to be cut in little pieces; and
     as far as they would go, every one had some."  The practice still
     survives in the form of wedding favours.

This is an atom: 
A similar custom is still of every day's occurrence at Dieppe.  Upon
     the morrow after their marriage, the bride and bridegroom
     perambulate the streets, followed by a numerous cortege, the guests
     at the wedding festival, two and two; each individual wearing two
     bits of narrow ribbon, about two inches in length, of different
     colours, which are pinned crossways upon the breast.  These morsels
     of ribbons originally formed the garters of the bride and
     bridegroom, which had been divided amidst boisterous mirth among the
     assembled company, the moment the happy pair had been formally
     installed in the bridal bed.--Ex. inf.  Mr. William .Hughes,
     Belvedere, Jersey.--B.]

This is an atom: 
with a great deal of fooling among them that I and my wife did not like. Mr. Lucy and several
other gentlemen coming in after dinner, swearing and singing as if they were mad, only he singing
very handsomely.  There came in afterwards Mr. Southerne, clerk to Mr. Blackburne, and with
him Lambert, lieutenant of my Lord's ship, and brought with them the declaration that came
out to-day from the Parliament, wherein they declare for law and gospel, and for tythes; but
I do not find people apt to believe them.  After this taking leave I went to my father's, and
my wife staying there, he and I went to speak with Mr. Crumlum (in the meantime, while it was
five o'clock, he being in the school, we went to my cozen Tom Pepys' shop, the turner in Paul's
Churchyard, and drank with him a pot of ale); he gave my father directions what to do about
getting my brother an exhibition, and spoke very well of my brother.  Thence back with my father
home, where he and I spoke privately in the little room to my sister Pall about stealing of
things as my wife's scissars and my maid's book, at which my father was much troubled.  Hence
home with my wife and so to Whitehall, where I met with Mr. Hunt and Luellin, and drank with
them at Marsh's, and afterwards went up and wrote to my Lord by the post.  This day the Parliament
gave order that the late Committee of Safety should come before them this day se'nnight, and
all their papers, and their model of Government that they had made, to be brought in with them.
So home and talked with my wife about our dinner on Thursday.

This is an atom: 
25th.  Called up early to Mr. Downing; he gave me a Character, such a one as my Lord's, to
make perfect, and likewise gave me his order for L500 to carry to Mr. Frost, which I did and
so to my office, where I did do something about the character till twelve o'clock.  Then home
find found my wife and the maid at my Lord's getting things ready against to-morrow. I went
by water to my Uncle White's' to dinner, where I met my father, where we alone had a fine jole
of Ling to dinner.  After dinner I took leave, and coming home heard that in Cheapside there
had been but a little before a gibbet set up, and the picture of Huson

This is an atom: 
[John Hewson, who, from a low origin, became a colonel in the
     Parliament army, and sat in judgment on the King: he escaped hanging
     by flight, and died in 1662, at Amsterdam.  A curious notice of
     Hewson occurs in Rugge's "Diurnal," December 5th, 1659, which states
     that "he was a cobbler by trade, but a very stout man, and a very
     good commander; but in regard of his former employment, they [the
     city apprentices] threw at him old shoes, and slippers, and
     turniptops, and brick-bats, stones, and tiles."  .  .  .  "At this
     time [January, 1659-60] there came forth, almost every day, jeering
     books: one was called 'Colonel Hewson's Confession; or, a Parley
     with Pluto,' about his going into London, and taking down the gates
     of Temple-Bar."  He had but one eye, which did not escape the notice
     of his enemies.--B.]

This is an atom: 
hung upon it in the middle of the street.  I called at Paul's Churchyard, where I bought Buxtorf's
Hebrew Grammar; and read a declaration of the gentlemen of Northampton which came out this
afternoon.  Thence to my father's, where I staid with my mother a while and then to Mr. Crew's
about a picture to be sent into the country, of Mr. Thomas Crew, to my Lord.  So [to] my Lady
Wright to speak with her, but she was abroad, so Mr. Evans, her butler, had me into his buttery,
and gave me sack and a lesson on his lute, which he played very well.  Thence I went to my
Lord's and got most things ready against tomorrow, as fires and laying the cloth, and my wife
was making of her tarts and larding of her pullets till eleven o'clock.  This evening Mr. Downing
sent for me, and gave me order to go to Mr. Jessop for his papers concerning his dispatch to
Holland which were not ready, only his order for a ship to transport him he gave me.  To my
Lord's again and so home with my wife, tired with this day's work.

This is an atom: 
26th.  To my office for L20 to carry to Mr. Downing, which I did and back again.  Then came
Mr. Frost to pay Mr. Downing his L500, and I went to him for the warrant and brought it Mr.
Frost.  Called for some papers at Whitehall for Mr. Downing, one of which was an Order of the
Council for L1800 per annum, to be paid monthly; and the other two, Orders to the Commissioners
of Customs, to let his goods pass free.  Home from my office to my Lord's lodgings where my
wife had got ready a very fine dinner--viz. a dish of marrow bones; a leg of mutton; a loin
of veal; a dish of fowl, three pullets, and two dozen of larks all in a dish; a great tart,
a neat's tongue, a dish of anchovies; a dish of prawns and cheese.  My company was my father,
my uncle Fenner, his two sons, Mr. Pierce, and all their wives, and my brother Tom.  We were
as merry as I could frame myself to be in the company, W. Joyce talking after the old rate
and drinking hard, vexed his father and mother and wife.  And I did perceive that Mrs. Pierce
her coming so gallant, that it put the two young women quite out of courage.  When it became
dark they all went away but Mr. Pierce, and W. Joyce, and their wives and Tom, and drank a
bottle of wine afterwards, so that Will did heartily vex his father and mother by staying.
At which I and my wife were much pleased.  Then they all went and I fell to writing of two
characters for Mr. Downing, and carried them to him at nine o'clock at night, and he did not
like them but corrected them, so that to-morrow I am to do them anew.  To my Lord's lodging
again and sat by the great log, it being now a very good fire, with my wife, and ate a bit
and so home. The news this day is a letter that speaks absolutely Monk's concurrence with this
Parliament, and nothing else, which yet I hardly believe.  After dinner to-day my father showed
me a letter from my Uncle Robert,  in answer to my last, concerning my money which I would
have out of my Coz. Beck's' hand, wherein Beck desires it four months longer, which I know
not how to spare.

This is an atom: 
27th.  Going to my office I met with Tom Newton, my old comrade, and took him to the Crown
in the Palace, and gave him his morning draft.  And as he always did, did talk very high what
he would do with the Parliament, that he would have what place he would, and that he might
be one of the Clerks to the Council if he would.  Here I staid talking with him till the offices
were all shut, and then I looked in the Hall, and was told by my bookseller, Mrs. Michell,
that Mr. G. Montagu had inquired there for me. So I went to his house, and was forced by him
to dine with him, and had a plenteous brave dinner and the greatest civility that ever I had
from any man.  Thence home and so to Mrs. Jem, and played with her at cards, and coming home
again my wife told me that Mr. Hawly had been there to speak with me, and seemed angry that
I had not been at the office that day, and she told me she was afraid that Mr. Downing may
have a mind to pick some hole in my coat.  So I made haste to him, but found no such thing
from him, but he sent me to Mr. Sherwin's about getting Mr. Squib to come to him tomorrow,
and I carried him an answer.  So home and fell a writing the characters for Mr. Downing, and
about nine at night Mr. Hawly came, and after he was gone I sat up till almost twelve writing,
and--wrote two of them.  In the morning up early and wrote another, my wife lying in bed and
reading to me.

This is an atom: 
28th.  I went to Mr. Downing and carried him three characters, and then to my office and wrote
another, while Mr. Frost staid telling money.  And after I had done it Mr. Hawly came into
the office and I left him and carried it to Mr. Downing, who then told me that he was resolved
to be gone for Holland this morning.  So I to my office again, and dispatch my business there,
and came with Mr. Hawly to Mr. Downing's lodging, and took Mr. Squib from White Hall in a coach
thither with me, and there we waited in his chamber a great while, till he came in; and in
the mean time, sent all his things to the barge that lay at Charing-Cross Stairs. Then came
he in, and took a very civil leave of me, beyond my expectation, for I was afraid that he would
have told me something of removing me from my office; but he did not, but that he would do
me any service that lay in his power. So I went down and sent a porter to my house for my best
fur cap, but he coming too late with it I did not present it to him.  Thence I went to Westminster
Hall, and bound up my cap at Mrs. Michell's, who was much taken with my cap, and endeavoured
to overtake the coach at the Exchange and to give it him there, but I met with one that told
me that he was gone, and so I returned and went to Heaven,

This is an atom: 
[A place of entertainment within or adjoining Westminster Hall.  It
     is called in "Hudibras," "False Heaven, at the end of the Hall."
     There were two other alehouses near Westminster Hall, called Hell
     and Purgatory.

This is an atom: 
"Nor break his fast
                    In Heaven and Hell."

This is an atom: 
Ben Jonson's Alchemist, act v.  SC. 2.]

This is an atom: 
where Luellin and I dined on a breast of mutton all alone, discoursing of the changes that
we have seen and the happiness of them that have estates of their own, and so parted, and I
went by appointment to my office and paid young Mr. Walton L500; it being very dark he took
L300 by content. He gave me half a piece and carried me in his coach to St. Clement's, from
whence I went to Mr. Crew's and made even with Mr. Andrews, and took in all my notes and gave
him one for all.  Then to my Lady Wright and gave her my Lord's letter which he bade me give
her privately.  So home and then to Will's for a little news, then came home again and wrote
to my Lord, and so to Whitehall and gave them to the post-boy.  Back again home and to bed.

This is an atom: 
29th.  In the morning I went to Mr. Gunning's, where he made an excellent sermon upon the 2d
of the Galatians, about the difference that fell between St. Paul and St. Peter (the feast
day of St. Paul being a day or two ago), whereby he did prove, that, contrary to the doctrine
of the Roman Church, St. Paul did never own any dependance, or that he was inferior to St.
Peter, but that they were equal, only one a particular charge of preaching to the Jews, and
the other to the Gentiles.  Here I met with Mr. Moore, and went home with him to dinner to
Mr. Crew's, where Mr. Spurrier being in town did dine with us.  From thence I went home and
spent the afternoon in casting up my accounts, and do find myself to be worth L40 and more,
which I did not think, but am afraid that I have forgot something.  To my father's to supper,
where I heard by my brother Tom how W. Joyce would the other day have Mr. Pierce and his wife
to the tavern after they were gone from my house, and that he had so little manners as to make
Tom pay his share notwithstanding that he went upon his account, and by my father I understand
that my uncle Fenner and my aunt were much pleased with our entertaining them.  After supper
home without going to see Mrs. Turner.

This is an atom: 
30th.  This morning, before I was up, I fell a-singing of my song, "Great, good, and just," &c.

This is an atom: 
[This is the beginning of the Marquis of Montrose's verses on the
     execution of Charles I., which Pepys had set to music:

This is an atom: 
"Great, good, and just, could I but rate
          My grief and thy too rigid fate,
          I'd weep the world to such a strain
          That it should deluge once again.
          But since thy loud-tongued blood demands supplies
          More from Briareus' hands, than Argus eyes,
          I'll sing thy obsequies with trumpet sounds,
          And write thy epitaph with blood and wounds."]

This is an atom: 
and put myself thereby in mind that this was the fatal day, now ten years since, his Majesty
died.  Scull the waterman came and brought me a note from the Hope from Mr. Hawly with direction,
about his money, he tarrying there till his master be gone.  To my office, where I received
money of the excise of Mr. Ruddyer, and after we had done went to Will's and staid there till
3 o'clock and then I taking my L12 10s. 0d. due to me for my last quarter's salary, I went
with them by water to London to the house where Signr. Torriano  used to be and staid there
a while with Mr. Ashwell, Spicer and Ruddier.  Then I went and paid L12 17s. 6d. due from me
to Captn. Dick Matthews according to his direction the last week in a letter.  After that I
came back by water playing on my flageolette and not finding my wife come home again from her
father's I went and sat awhile and played at cards with Mrs. Jam, whose maid had newly got
an ague and was ill thereupon.  So homewards again, having great need to do my business, and
so pretending to meet Mr. Shott the wood monger of Whitehall I went and eased myself at the
Harp and Ball, and thence home where I sat writing till bed-time and so to bed.  There seems
now to be a general cease of talk, it being taken for granted that Monk do resolve to stand
to the Parliament, and nothing else.  Spent a little time this night in knocking up nails for
my hat and cloaks in my chamber.

This is an atom: 
31st.  In the morning I fell to my lute till 9 o'clock.  Then to my Lord's lodgings and set
out a barrel of soap to be carried to Mrs. Ann. Here I met with Nick Bartlet, one that had
been a servant of my Lord's at sea and at Harper's gave him his morning draft.  So to my office
where I paid; L1200 to Mr. Frost and at noon went to Will's to give one of the Excise office
a pot of ale that came to-day to tell over a bag of his that wanted; L7 in it, which he found
over in another bag.  Then home and dined with my wife when in came Mr. Hawly newly come from
shipboard from his master, and brought me a letter of direction what to do in his lawsuit with
Squib about his house and office.  After dinner to Westminster Hall, where all we clerks had
orders to wait upon the Committee, at the Star Chamber that is to try Colonel Jones,

This is an atom: 
[Colonel John Jones, impeached, with General Ludlow and Miles
     Corbet, for treasonable practices in Ireland.]

This is an atom: 
and were to give an account what money we had paid him; but the Committee did not sit to-day.
Hence to Will's, where I sat an hour or two with Mr. Godfrey Austin, a scrivener in King Street.
Here I met and afterwards bought the answer to General Monk's letter, which is a very good
one, and I keep it by me.  Thence to Mrs. Jem, where I found her maid in bed in a fit of the
ague, and Mrs. Jem among the people below at work and by and by she came up hot and merry,
as if they had given her wine, at which I was troubled, but said nothing; after a game at cards,
I went home and wrote by the post and coming back called in at Harper's and drank with Mr.
Pulford, servant to Mr. Waterhouse, who tells me, that whereas my Lord Fleetwood should have
answered to the Parliament to-day, he wrote a letter and desired a little more time, he being
a great way out of town. And how that he is quite ashamed of himself, and confesses how he
had deserved this, for his baseness to his brother.  And that he is like to pay part of the
money, paid out of the Exchequer during the Committee of Safety, out of his own purse again,
which I am glad of.  Home and to bed, leaving my wife reading in Polixandre.

This is an atom: 
["Polexandre," by Louis Le Roy de Gomberville, was first published
     in 1632.  "The History of Polexander" was "done into English by W.
     Browne," and published in folio, London, 1647.  It was the earliest
     of the French heroic romances, and it appears to have been the model
     for the works of Calprenede and Mdlle. de Scuderi; see Dunlop's
     "History of Fiction" for the plot of the romance.]

This is an atom: 
I could find nothing in Mr. Downing's letter, which Hawly brought me, concerning my office;
but I could discern that Hawly had a mind that I would get to be Clerk of the Council, I suppose
that he might have the greater salary; but I think it not safe yet to change this for a public
employment.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
***************************************************************************