Document Name: /part3/suspicious-document04741.txt
Atom_Type: paragraph
Cluster_Method: kmeans
Plagiarized Atoms Count: 0/25
Non-Plagiarized Atoms Count: 25/25

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NON-PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an atom: 
﻿Poor old heart, older than its years, thus wailing out its sorrows to ears none too sympathetic;
sad old voice, uplifted from the bright shores of that lonely island in the midst of strange
seas!  It will not come clear to the head alone; the echoes of this cry must reverberate in
the heart if they are to reach and animate the understanding.

This is an atom: 
At this time also the Admiral wrote to his friend Gaspar Gorricio.  For the benefit of those
who may be interested I give the letter in English.

This is an atom: 
REVEREND AND VERY DEVOUT FATHER:

This is an atom: 
"If my voyage should be as conducive to my personal health and the
     repose of my house as it seems likely to be conducive to the
     aggrandisement of the royal Crown of the King and Queen, my Lords,
     I might hope to live more than a hundred years.  I have not time to
     write more at length.  I hope that the bearer of this letter may be
     a person of my house who will tell you verbally more than can be
     told in a thousand papers, and also Don Diego will supply
     information.  I beg as a favour of the Father Prior and all the
     members of your religious house, that they remember me in all their
     prayers.

This is an atom: 
"Done on the island of Jamaica, July 7, 1503.
     "I am at the command of your Reverence.

This is an atom: 
.S.
                                             .S.A.S.  XMY
                                              Xpo FERENS."

This is an atom: 
Diego Mendez found some one among the Spaniards to accompany him, but his name is not recorded.
The six Indians were taken to row the canoe.  They had to make their way at first against the
strong currents along the northern coast of Jamaica, so as to reach its eastern extremity before
striking across to Espanola.  At one point they met a flotilla of Indian canoes, which chased
them and captured them, but they escaped.  When they arrived at the end of the easterly point
of Jamaica, now known as Morant Point, they had to wait two or three days for calm weather
and a favourable wind to waft them across to Espanola, and while thus waiting they were suddenly
surrounded and captured by a tribe of hostile natives, who carried them off some nine or ten
miles into the island, and signified their intention of killing them.

This is an atom: 
But they began to quarrel among themselves as to how they should divide the spoils which they
had captured with the canoe, and decided that the only way of settling the dispute was by some
elaborate trial of hazard which they used.  While they were busy with their trial Diego Mendez
managed to escape, got back to the canoe, and worked his way back in it alone to the harbour
where the Spaniards were encamped.  The other Spaniard who was with him probably perished,
for there is no record of what became of him--an obscure life lost in a brave enterprise.

This is an atom: 
One would have thought that Mendez now had enough of canoe voyages, but he had no sooner got
back than he offered to set out again, only stipulating that an armed force should march along
the coast by land to secure his safety until he could stand across to Espanola.  Bartholomew
Columbus immediately put himself at the head of a large and well-armed party for this purpose,
and Bartolomeo Fieschi, the Genoese captain of one of the lost caravels, volunteered to accompany
Mendez in a second canoe.  Each canoe was now manned by six Spanish volunteers and ten Indians
to row; Fieschi, as soon as they had reached the coast of Espanola, was to bring the good news
to the Admiral; while Mendez must go on to San Domingo, procure a ship, and himself proceed
to Spain with the Admiral's letters.  The canoes were provisioned with water, cassava bread,
and fish; and they departed on this enterprise some time in August 1503.

This is an atom: 
Their passage along the coast was protected by Bartholomew Columbus, who marched along with
them on the shore.  They waited a few days at the end of the island for favourable weather,
and finally said farewell to the good Adelantado, who we may be sure stood watching them until
they were well out of sight.

This is an atom: 
There was not a cloud in the sky when the canoes stood out to sea; the water was calm, and
reflected the blistering heat of the sun.  It was not a pleasant situation for people in an
open boat; and Mendez and Fieschi were kept busy, as Irving says, "animating the Indians who
navigated their canoes, and who frequently paused at their labour."  The poor Indians, evidently
much in need of such animation, would often jump into the water to escape the intolerable heat,
and after a short immersion there would return to their task.  Things were better when the
sun went down, and the cool night came on; half the Indians then slept and half rowed, while
half of the Spaniards also slept and the other half, I suppose, "animated."  Irving also says
that the animating half "kept guard with their weapons in hand, ready to defend themselves
in the case of any perfidy on the part of their savage companions"; such perfidy being far
enough from the thoughts of the savage companions, we may imagine, whose energies were entirely
occupied with the oars.

This is an atom: 
The next day was the same: savage companions rowing, Spaniards animating; Spaniards and savage
companions alike drinking water copiously without regard for the smallness of their store.
The second night was very hot, and the savage companions finished the water, with the result
that on the third day the thirst became a torment, and at mid-day the poor companions struck
work.  Artful Mendez, however, had concealed two small kegs of water in his canoe, the contents
of which he now administered in small doses, so that the poor Indians were enabled to take
to their oars again, though with vigour much abated.  Presumably the Spaniards had put up their
weapons by this time, for the only perfidy shown on the part of the savage companions was that
one of them died in the following night and had to be thrown overboard, while others lay panting
on the bottom of the canoes; and the Spaniards had to take their turn at the oars, although
they were if anything in a worse case than the Indians.

This is an atom: 
Late in the night, however, the moon rose, and Mendez had the joy of seeing its lower disc
cut by a jagged line which proved to be the little islet or rock of Navassa, which lies off
the westerly end of Espanola. New hope now animated the sufferers, and they pushed on until
they were able to land on this rock, which proved to be without any vegetation whatsoever,
but on the surface of which there were found some precious pools of rain-water.  Mendez was
able to restrain the frantic appetites of his fellow-countrymen, but the savage companions
were less wise, and drank their fill; so that some of them died in torment on the spot, and
others became seriously ill.  The Spaniards were able to make a fire of driftwood, and boil
some shell-fish, which they found on shore, and they wisely spent the heat of the day crouching
in the shade of the rocks, and put off their departure until the evening.  It was then a comparatively
easy journey for them to cross the dozen miles that separated them from Espanola, and they
landed the next day in a pleasant harbour near Cape Tiburon.  Fieschi, true to his promise,
was then ready to start back for Jamaica with news of the safe accomplishment of the voyage;
but the remnant of the crews, Spaniards and savage companions alike, had had enough of it,
and no threats or persuasions would induce them to embark again.  Mendez, therefore, left his
friends to enjoy some little repose before continuing their journey to San Domingo, and, taking
six natives of Espanola to row his canoe; set off along the coast towards the capital.  He
had not gone half-way when he learned that Ovando was not there, but was in Xaragua, so he
left his canoe and struck northward through the forest until he arrived at the Governor's camp.

This is an atom: 
Ovando welcomed Mendez cordially, praised him for his plucky voyage, and expressed the greatest
concern at the plight of the Admiral; but he was very busy at the moment, and was on the point
of transacting a piece of business that furnished a dismal proof of the deterioration which
had taken place in him.  Anacaona--the lady with the daughter whom we remember--was now ruling
over the province of Xaragua, her brother having died; and as perhaps her native subjects had
been giving a little trouble to the Governor, he had come to exert his authority.  The narrow
official mind, brought into contact with native life, never develops in the direction of humanity;
and Ovando had now for some time made the great discovery that it was less trouble to kill
people than to try to rule over them wisely.  There had evidently always been a streak of Spanish
cruelty in him, which had been much developed by his residence in Espanola; and to cruelty
and narrow officialdom he now added treachery of a very monstrous and horrible kind.

This is an atom: 
He announced his intention of paying a state visit to Anacaona, who thereupon summoned all
her tributary chiefs to a kind of levee held in his honour.  In the midst of the levee, at
a given signal, Ovando's soldiers rushed in, seized the caciques, fastened them to the wooden
pillars of the house, and set the whole thing on fire; the caciques being thus miserably roasted
alive.  While this was going on the atrocious work was completed by the soldiers massacring
every native they could see --children, women, and old men included--and Anacaona herself was
taken and hanged.

This is an atom: 
All these things Diego Mendez had to witness; and when they were over, Ovando still had excuses
for not hurrying to the relief of the Admiral. He had embarked on a campaign of extermination
against the natives, and he followed up his atrocities at Xaragua by an expedition to the eastern
end of Espanola, where very much the same kind of business was transacted.  Weeks and months
passed in this bloody cruelty, and there was always an excuse for putting off Mendez.  Now
it was because of the operations which he dignified by the name of wars, and now because he
had no ship suitable for sending to Jamaica; but the truth was that Ovando, the springs of
whose humanity had been entirely dried up during his disastrous reign in Espanola, did not
want Columbus to see with his own eyes the terrible state of the island, and was callous enough
to leave him either to perish or to find his own way back to the world.  It was only when news
came that a fleet of caravels was expected from Spain that Ovando could no longer prevent Mendez
from going to San Domingo and, purchasing one of them.

This is an atom: 
Ovando had indeed lost all but the outer semblance of a man; the soul or animating part of
him had entirely gone to corruption.  He had no interest in rescuing the Admiral; he had, on
the contrary, great interest in leaving him unrescued; but curiosity as to his fate, and fear
as to his actions in case he should return to Espanola, induced the Governor to make some effort
towards spying cut his condition.  He had a number of trained rascals under his command--among
them Diego de Escobar, one of Roldan's bright brigade; and Ovando had no sooner seen Mendez
depart on his journey to San Domingo than he sent this Escobar to embark in a small caravel
on a visit to Jamaica in order to see if the Admiral was still alive.  The caravel had to be
small, so that there could be no chance of bringing off the 130 men who had been left to perish
there; and various astute instructions were given to Escobar in order to prevent his arrival
being of any comfort or assistance to the shipwrecked ones.  And so Escobar sailed; and so,
in the month of March 1504, eight months after the vanishing of Mendez below the eastern horizon,
the miserable company encamped on the two decaying ships on the sands at Puerto Santa Gloria
descried with joyful excitement the sails of a Spanish caravel standing in to the shore.

This is an atom: 
CHAPTER V

This is an atom: 
THE ECLIPSE OF THE MOON

This is an atom: 
We must now return to the little settlement on the coast of Jamaica --those two wornout caravels,
lashed together with ropes and bridged by an erection of wood and thatch, in which the forlorn
little company was established.  In all communities of men so situated there are alternate
periods of action and reaction, and after the excitement incidental to the departure of Mendez,
and the return of Bartholomew with the news that he had got safely away, there followed a time
of reaction, in which the Spaniards looked dismally out across the empty sea and wondered when,
if ever, their salvation would come.  Columbus himself was now a confirmed invalid, and could
hardly ever leave his bed under the thatch; and in his own condition of pain and depression
his influence on the rest of the crew must inevitably have been less inspiriting than it had
formerly been.  The men themselves, moreover, began to grow sickly, chiefly on account of the
soft vegetable food, to which they were not accustomed, and partly because of their cramped
quarters and the moist, unhealthy climate, which was the very opposite of what they needed
after their long period of suffering and hardship at sea.

This is an atom: 
As the days and weeks passed, with no occupation save the daily business of collecting food
that gradually became more and more nauseous to them, and of straining their eyes across the
empty blue of the sea in an anxious search for the returning canoes of Fieschi, the spirits
of the castaways sank lower and lower.  Inevitably their discontent became articulate and broke
out into murmurings.  The usual remedy for this state of affairs is to keep the men employed
at some hard work; but there was no work for them to do, and the spirit of dissatisfaction
had ample opportunity to spread.  As usual it soon took the form of hostility to the Admiral.
They seem to have borne him no love or gratitude for his masterly guiding of them through so
many dangers; and now when he lay ill and in suffering his treacherous followers must needs
fasten upon him the responsibility for their condition.  After a month or two had passed, and
it became certain that Fieschi was not coming back, the castaways could only suppose that he
and Mendez had either been captured by natives or had perished at sea, and that their fellow-countrymen
must still be without news of the Admiral's predicament.  They began to say also that the Admiral
was banished from Spain; that there was no desire or intention on the part of the Sovereigns
to send an expedition to his relief; even if they had known of his condition; and that in any
case they must long ago have given him up for lost.

This is an atom: 
When the pot boils the scum rises to the surface, and the first result of these disloyal murmurings
and agitations was to bring into prominence the two brothers, Francisco and Diego de Porras,
who, it will be remembered, owed their presence with the expedition entirely to the Admiral's
good nature in complying with the request of their brother-in-law Morales, who had apparently
wished to find some distant occupation for them.  They had been given honourable posts as officers,
in which they had not proved competent; but the Admiral had always treated them with kindness
and courtesy, regarding them more as guests than as servants.  Who or what these Porras brothers
were, where they came from, who were their father and mother, or what was their training, I
do not know; it is enough for us to know that the result of it all had been the production
of a couple of very mean scoundrels, who now found an opportunity to exercise their scoundrelism.

This is an atom: 
When they discovered the nature of the murmuring and discontent among the crew they immediately
set them to work it up into open mutiny.  They represented that, as Mendez had undoubtedly
perished, there was no hope of relief from Espanola; that the Admiral did not even expect such
relief, knowing that the island was forbidden ground to him.  They insinuated that he was as
well content to remain in Jamaica as anywhere else, since he had to undergo a period of banishment
until his friends at Court could procure his forgiveness.  They were all, said the Porras brothers,
being made tools for the Admiral's convenience; as he did not wish to leave Jamaica himself,
he was keeping them all there, to perish as likely as not, and in the meantime to form a bodyguard,
and establish a service for himself.  The Porras brothers suggested that, under these circumstances,
it would be as well to take a fleet of native canoes from the Indians and make their own way
to Espanola; the Admiral would never undertake the voyage himself, being too helpless from
the gout; but it would be absurd if the whole company were to be allowed to perish because
of the infirmities of one man.  They reminded the murmurers that they would not be the first
people who had rebelled with success against the despotic rule of Columbus, and that the conduct
of the Sovereigns on a former occasion afforded them some promise that those who rebelled again
would receive something quite different from punishment.

This is an atom: 
Christmas passed, the old year went out in this strange, unhomelike place, and the new year
came in.  The Admiral, as we have seen, was now almost entirely crippled and confined to his
bed; and he was lying alone in his cabin on the second day of the year when Francisco de Porras
abruptly entered.  Something very odd and flurried about Porras; he jerks and stammers, and
suddenly breaks out into a flood of agitated speech, in which the Admiral distinguishes a stream
of bitter reproach and impertinence.  The thing forms itself into nothing more or less than
a hurried, gabbling complaint; the people are dissatisfied at being kept here week after week
with no hope of relief; they accuse the Admiral of neglecting their interests; and so on. 
Columbus, raising himself in his bed, tries to pacify Porras; gives him reasons why it is impossible
for them to depart in canoes; makes every endeavour, in short, to bring this miserable fellow
back to his duties.  He is watching Porras's eye all the time; sees that he is too excited
to be pacified by reason, and suspects that he has considerable support behind him; and suggests
that the crew had better all be assembled and a consultation held as to the best course to pursue.

This is an atom: 
It is no good to reason with mutineers; and the Admiral has no sooner made this suggestion
than he sees that it was a mistake.  Porras scoffs at it; action, not consultation, is what
he demands; in short he presents an ultimatum to the Admiral--either to embark with the whole
company at once, or stay behind in Jamaica at his own pleasure.  And then, turning his back
on Columbus and raising his voice, he calls out, "I am for Castile; those who choose may follow
me!"

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAGIARIZED ATOMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
***************************************************************************