"Right over the figure with a saucepan, is a Turnkey, holding up a key
and pulling down the celebrated Meredith; who, quite serious, and
believing he will really sit in the House, is endeavouring to strike the
turnkey with a champagne glass. The gallant member is on the shoulders of
two men, who are peeping out and quizzing.

"Close to Meredith is his fellow Member, dressed in a Spanish hat and
feather, addressing the Sergeant opposite him, with an arch look, on the
illegality of his entrance at elections, while a turnkey has taken hold
of the member's robe, and is pulling him off the water butt with violence.

"The sergeant, a fine soldier, one of the heroes of Waterloo, is smiling
and amused, while a grenadier, one of the other three under arms, is
looking at his sergeant for orders.

"In the corner, directly under the sergeant, is a dissipated young man,
addicted to hunting and sports, without adequate means for the enjoyment,
attended by his distressed family. He, half intoxicated, has just drawn a
cork, and is addressing the bottle, his only comfort, while his daughter
is delicately putting it aside and looking with entreaty at her father.

"The harassed wife is putting back the daughter, unwilling to deprive the
man she loves, of what, though a baneful consolation, is still one; while
the little, shoeless boy with his hoop, is regarding his father with that
strange wonder, with which children look at the unaccountable alteration
in features and expression, that takes place under the effects of
intoxication.

"Three pawnbroker's duplicates, one for the child's shoes, 1_s_. 6_d_.,
one for the wedding ring, 5_s_., and one for the wife's necklace, 7_l_.,
lie at the feet of the father, with the Sporting Magazine; for drunkards
generally part with the ornaments or even necessaries of their wives and
children before they trespass on their own.

"At the opposite corner lies curled up the Head Constable, hid away under
his bed-curtain, which he had for a robe, and slyly looking, as if he
hoped nobody would betray him. By his side is placed a table, with the
relics of a luxurious enjoyment, while a washing tub as a wine cooler,
contains, under the table, Hock, Champagne, Burgundy, and a Pine.

"Directly over the sergeant, on the wall, are written, 'The _Majesti_
of the _Peepel_ for ever--huzza!'--'No military at Elections!' and 'No
Marshal!'--on the standards to the left, are '_Confusion to Credit, and
no fraudulent Creditors_.' In the window are a party with a lady smoking
a hookah; on the ledge of the window, "Success to the detaining Creditor!"
--At the opposite window is a portrait of the Painter, looking down on
the extraordinary scene with great interest--underneath him is, 'Sperat
infestis.'

"On a board under the lady smoking, is written the order of the Lord
Mayor, enjoining _Peace_, as follows:--

    "Banco Regis,
    Court House, July 16,
    In the Sixth year of the
    Reign of GEORGE IV.

"Peremptorily ordered--

    "That the Special Constables and Headboroughs
    of this ancient Bailwick do take into
    custody all Persons found in any way committing
    a breach of the Peace, during the Procession
    of Chairing the Members returned to represent
    this Borough.

  "SIR ROBERT BIRCH, (Collegian) Lord Mayor.

"'A New Way to pay Old Debts,'--is written over the first turnkey; and
below it, 'N.B. A very old way, discovered 3394 years B.C.;' and in the
extreme distance, over a shop, is--'Dealer in every thing genuine.'

"While the man beating the long drum, at the opposite end, another the
cymbals, and the third blowing a trumpet, with the windows all crowded
with spectators, complete the composition, with the exception of the
melancholy victim behind the High Sheriff.

"I recommend the contemplation of this miserable creature, once a
gentleman, to all advocates of imprisonment for debt. First rendered
reckless by imprisonment--then hopeless--then sottish--and, last of all,
from utter despair of freedom, insane! Round his withered temples is a
blue ribbon, with 'Dulce est pro Patriâ mori,' (it is sweet to die for
one's country); for he is baring his breast to rush on the bayonets of
the guards, a willing sacrifice, as he believes, poor fellow, for a great
public principle. In his pocket he has three pamphlets, 'On Water
Drinking, or The Blessings of Imprisonment for Debt,'--and Adam Smith's
'Moral Essays.'--Ruffles hang from his wrists, the relics of former days,
rags cover his feeble legs, one foot is naked, and his appearance is that
of a decaying being, mind and body."

Such is Mr. Haydon's "Explanation" of his own Picture; and it only
remains for us to give the reader some idea of its most prominent
beauties. As a whole, it is very superior to the "Election," highly as we
were disposed to rate the merits of that performance. The style is
masterly throughout, and every shade of the colouring has all the depth
and richness which characterize works of real genius. There is a spirit
in every touch which differs as much from the softened and soulless
compositions of certain modern artists, as does the florid architecture
of the ancients from the starved proportions of these days, or the rich
and graceful style of the Essayists from the fabrications of little,
self-conceited biographers. In short, the whole scene is dashed off in the
first style of art; the subject and humour are all over English--true to
nature, and so forcible as to seize on the attention of the most listless
beholder.

We must notice a few of the details. The three guards are foremost in the
picture, and in merit; the struggle in their countenances between
discipline and a sense of the ludicrous scene before them is admirably
represented; as well as the little urchin with his tin sword. The centre
figure of the High Sheriff, with his tattered and faded finery of office,
is equally clever; but the skill with which the artist has contrived to
express his forced mirth, and mopstick bravado, is still more forcible.
The troubled countenance of the Lord Mayor is an excellent portrait of
the indignation of little authority when perturbed by men of greater
place. The faces of the turnkey and the sergeant are likewise admirable;
and that of the soldier looking towards the latter for orders, is like an
excellent piece of byplay in the farce. The drunken patriot, behind the
High Sheriff, is well entitled to the attention which the artist, in his
explanation, suggests; but the spectator must not dwell too long on this
sorrowful wreck of fallen nature. The group in the foreground of the
right hand corner, is an episode which must not be omitted, for it
corresponds with the fine portrait in the same situation in the "Election"
picture. The reckless dissipation of the fine, young fox-hunter, the half
intoxicated chuckle with which he holds the bottle, the grief of his
daughter and wife, and the little shoeless boy with his hoop, are finely
contrasted with the rich humour and extravagant burlesque of all around
them. The slyness of the Head Constable, in the left hand corner, half
smothered in his mock robes, is expressively told; and the painter is a
capital likeness.

From the success of Mr. Haydon in the particular line of art requisite
for scenes of real humour, it is not unlikely that his execution of the
first picture, the "Election" may prove one of the most fortunate events
in his professional career, and turn out to be one of the "sweet uses of
adversity," by eliciting talent which he probably did not believe himself
to possess. Much as we admire this style of art, we can but deplore that
purchasers cannot be found for such pictures as his _Entry into
Jerusalem_, and _Judgment of Solomon_, both which, with two others, are
exhibited in the room with the Chairing of the Members. Out of the scores
of new churches which are yearly completed, surely some altar-pieces
might be introduced with propriety; and when we consider the peculiar
influence which such scenes as those chosen by Mr. Haydon are known to
possess over the human heart, we do not think their entire exclusion from
modern churches contributes to their devotional character.

Such pictures are intended for better purposes than mere seclusion in
large galleries and mansions, of which there are but comparatively few in
England; and it is always with regret that we see these noble efforts of
art in such profitless situations. Occasionally a nobleman, or parochial
taste, introduces a valuable painted window, and sometimes an altarpiece
into a church; but we wish the practice were more general.

       *       *       *       *       *


RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLAND IN THE DAYS OF GOOD "QUEEN BESS."


The misery and mendicity which prevailed in this country before the
provisions of the poor laws in the time of Elizabeth became duly enforced,
might be proved by the following extract from a curious old pamphlet,
which describes, in very forcible language, the poverty and idleness
which prevailed in one of the fairest and most fertile districts of the
kingdom, viz.--

The Golden Vale in Herefordshire, (being ye pride of al that country,)
being the richest yet (for want of employment) the plentifullest place of
poore in the kingdom--yielding two or three hundred folde; the number so
increasing (idleness having gotten the upper hand;) if trades bee not
raised--beggery will carry such reputation in my quarter of the country,
as if it had the whole to halves.

There bee, says this author, within a mile and a halfe from my house
every waye, five hundred poore habitations; whose greatest meanes consist
in spinning flaxe, hemp, and hurdes. They dispose the seasons of the
yeare in this manner; I will begin with May, June, and July, (three of
the merriest months for beggers,) which yield the best increase for their
purpose, to raise multitudes: whey, curdes, butter-milk, and such belly
provision, abounding in the neighbourhood, serves their turne. As wountes
or moles hunt after wormes, the ground being dewable, so these idelers
live intolerablie by other meanes, and neglect their painfull labours by
oppressing the neighbourhood. August, September, and October, with that
permission which the Lord hath allowed the poorer sorte to gather the
eares of corne, they do much harme. I have seen three hundred leazers or
gleaners in one gentleman's corn-field at once; his servants gathering
and stouking the bound sheaves, the sheaves lying on the ground like dead
carcases in an overthrown battell, they following the spoyle, not like
souldiers (which scorne to rifle) but like theeves desirous to steale; so
this army holdes pillaging, wheate, rye, barly, pease, and oates; oates,
a graine which never grew in Canaan, nor AEgypt, and altogether out of
the allowance of leazing.

Under colour of the last graine, oates, it being the latest harvest,
they doe (without mercy in hotte bloud) steale, robbe orchards, gardens,
hop-yards, and crab trees; so what with leazing and stealing, they doe
poorly maintaine themselves November, December, and almost all January,
with some healpes from the neighbourhood.

The last three moneths, February, March, and Aprill, little labour serves
their turne, they hope by the heat of the sunne, (seasoning themselves,
like snakes, under headges,) to recover the month of May with much
poverty, long fasting, and little praying; and so make an end of their
yeares travel in the Easter holy days.

       *       *       *       *       *


BEGGARS.


In the earlier periods of their history, both in England and Scotland,
beggars were generally of such a description as to entitle them to the
epithet of _sturdy_; accordingly they appear to have been regarded often
as impostors and always as nuisances and pests. "Sornares," so violently
denounced in those acts, were what are here called "masterful beggars,"
who, when they could not obtain what they asked for by fair means, seldom
hesitated to take it by violence. The term is said to be Gaelic, and to
import a soldier. The life of such a beggar is well described in the
"Belman of London," printed in 1608--"The life of a beggar is the life of
a souldier. He suffers hunger and cold in winter, and heate and thirste
in summer; he goes lowsie, he goes lame; he is not regarded; he is not
rewarded; here only shines his glorie. The whole kingdome is but his walk;
a whole cittie is but his parish. In every man's kitchen is his meate
dressed; in every man's sellar lyes his beere; and the best men's purses
keepe a penny for him to spend."

       *       *       *       *       *


CURIOUS MANORIAL CUSTOM.


At King's Hill, about half a mile north-east of Rocford Church, Essex, is
held what is called the _Lawless Court_, a whimsical custom, the origin
of which is not known. On the Wednesday morning next after Michaelmas day,
the tenants are bound to attend upon the first cock-crowing, and to kneel
and do their homage, without any kind of light, but such as heaven will
afford. The steward of the court calls all such as are bound to appear,
with as low a voice as possible, giving no notice when he goes to execute
his office; however, he that does not give an answer is deeply amerced.
They are all to whisper to each other, nor have they any pen and ink, but
supply that deficiency with a coal; and he that owes suit and service,
and appears not, forfeits to the lord of the manor double his rent every
hour he is absent.

A tenant, some years ago, forfeited his land for non attendance, but was
restored to it, the lord taking only a fine.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PET DOG.


Dogs, when they are sure of having their own way, have sometimes ways as
odd as those of the unfurred, unfeathered animals, who walk on two legs,
and talk, and are called rational. My beautiful, white greyhound,
Mayflower, for instance, is as whimsical as the finest lady in the land.
Amongst her other fancies, she has taken a violent affection for a most
hideous stray dog, who made his appearance here about six months ago,
and contrived to pick up a living in the village, one can hardly tell
how. Now appealing to the charity of old Rachael Strong, the
laundress--a dog-lover by profession; now winning a meal from the
light-footed and open-hearted lasses at the Rose; now standing on his
hind-legs to extort, by sheer beggary, a scanty morsel from some pair of
"drowthy cronies," or solitary drover, discussing his dinner or supper
on the alehouse-bench; now catching a mouthful, flung to him in pure
contempt by some scornful gentleman of the shoulder-knot, mounted on his
throne, the coach-box, whose notice he had attracted by dint of
ugliness; now sharing the commons of Master Keep the shoemaker's pigs;
now succeeding to the reversion of the well-gnawed bone of Master Brow
the shopkeeper's fierce house-dog; now filching the skim-milk of Dame
Wheeler's cat:--spit at by the cat; worried by the mastiff; chased by
the pigs; screamed at by the dame; stormed at by the shoemaker; flogged
by the shopkeeper; teased by all the children, and scouted by all the
animals of the parish;--but yet living through his griefs, and bearing
them patiently, "for sufferance is the badge of all his tribe;"--and
even seeming to find, in an occasional full meal, or a gleam of
sunshine, or a whisp of dry straw, on which to repose his sorry carcass,
some comfort in his disconsolate condition.

In this plight was he found by May, the most high-blooded and
aristocratic of greyhounds; and from this plight did May rescue him;--
invited him into her territory, the stable; resisted all attempts to
turn him out; reinstated him there, in spite of maid, and boy, and
mistress, and master; wore out every body's opposition, by the activity
of her protection, and the pertinacity of her self-will; made him sharer
of her bed and her mess; and, finally, established him as one of the
family as firmly as herself.

Dash--for he has even won himself a name amongst us, before he was
anonymous--Dash is a sort of a kind of a spaniel; at least there is in
his mongrel composition some sign of that beautiful race. Besides his
ugliness, which is of the worst sort--that is to say, the shabbiest--he
has a limp on one leg that gives a peculiarly one-sided awkwardness to
his gait; but, independently of his great merit in being May's pet, he
has other merits which serve to account for that phenomenon--being,
beyond all comparison the most faithful, attached, and affectionate
animal that I have ever known; and that is saying much. He seems to think
it necessary to atone for his ugliness by extra good conduct, and does so
dance on his lame leg, and so wag his scrubby tail, that it does any one,
who has a taste for happiness, good to look at him--so that he may now be
said to stand on his own footing. We are all rather ashamed of him when
strangers come in the way, and think it necessary to explain that he is
May's pet; but amongst ourselves, and those who are used to his
appearance, he has reached the point of favouritism in his own person. I
have, in common with wiser women, the feminine weakness of loving
whatever loves me--and, therefore, like Dash. His master has found out
that Dash is a capital finder, and, in spite of his lameness, will hunt a
field, or beat a cover with any spaniel in England--and, therefore, _he_
likes Dash. The boy has fought a battle, in defence of his beauty, with
another boy, bigger than himself, and beat his opponent most handsomely--
and, therefore, _he_ likes Dash; and the maids like him, or pretend to
like him, because we do--as is the fashion of that pliant and imitative
class. And now Dash and May follow us every where, and are going with us
now to the Shaw, or rather to the cottage by the Shaw, to bespeak milk
and butter of our little dairy-woman, Hannah Bint--a housewifely
occupation, to which we owe some of our pleasantest rambles--_Miss
Mitford_.--_Month. Mag_.

       *       *       *       *       *


FROM THE ROMAIC.


  When we were last, my gentle Maid,
    In love's embraces twining,
  'Twas Night, who saw, and then betray'd!
    "Who saw?" Yon Moon was shining.
  A gossip Star shot down, and he
  First told our secret to the Sea.

  The Sea, who never secret kept,
    The peevish, blustering railer!
  Told it the Oar, as on he swept;
    The Oar informed the Sailor.
  The Sailor whisper'd it to his fair,
  And she--she told it every where!

_New Monthly Magazine_.

       *       *       *       *       *


NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

EELS.


The problem of the generation of eels is one of the most abstruse and
curious in natural history; but we have been much pleased, and not a
little enlightened, by some observations on the subject in Sir Humphrey
Davy's delightful little volume, _Salmonia_, of which the following is
the substance:--

Although the generation of eels occupied the attention of Aristotle, and
has been taken up by the most distinguished naturalists since his time,
it is still unsolved. Lacepède, the French naturalist, asserts, in the
most unqualified way, that they are _viviparous_; but we do not remember
any facts brought forward on the subject. Sir Humphrey then goes on to
say--This is certain, that there are two migrations of eels--one up and
one down rivers, one _from_ and the other _to_ the sea; the first in
spring and summer, the second in autumn or early winter. The first of
very small eels, which are sometimes not more than two or two and a half
inches long; the second of large eels, which sometimes are three or four
feet long, and which weigh from 10 to 15, or even 20 lbs. There is great
reason to believe that all eels found in fresh water are the results of
the first migration; they appear in millions in April and May, and
sometimes continue to rise as late even as July and the beginning of
August. I remember this was the case in Ireland in 1823. It had been a
cold, backward summer; and when I was at Ballyshannon, about the end of
July, the mouth of the river, which had been in flood all this month,
under the fall, was blackened by millions of little eels, about as long
as the finger, which were constantly urging their way up the moist rocks
by the side of the fall. Thousands died, but their bodies remaining moist,
served as the ladder for others to make their way; and I saw some
ascending even perpendicular stones, making their road through wet moss,
or adhering to some eels that had died in the attempt. Such is the energy
of these little animals, that they continue to find their way, in immense
numbers, to Loch Erne. The same thing happens at the fall of the Bann,
and Loch Neagh is thus peopled by them; even the mighty Fall of
Shaffausen does not prevent them from making their way to the Lake of
Constance, where I have seen many very large eels. There are eels in the
Lake of Neufchatel, which communicates by a stream with the Rhine; but
there are none in the Lake of Geneva, because the Rhone makes a
subterraneous fall below Geneva; and though small eels can pass by moss
or mount rocks, they cannot penetrate limestone rocks, or move against a
rapid descending current of water, passing, as it were, through a pipe.
Again: no eels mount the Danube from the Black Sea; and there are none
found in the great extent of lakes, swamps, and rivers communicating with
the Danube--though some of these lakes and morasses are wonderfully
fitted for them, and though they are found abundantly in the same
countries, in lakes and rivers connected with the ocean and the
Mediterranean. Yet, when brought into confined water in the Danube, they
fatten and thrive there. As to the instinct which leads young eels to
seek fresh water, it is difficult to reason; probably they prefer warmth,
and, swimming at the surface in the early summer, find the lighter water
warmer, and likewise containing more insects, and so pursue the courses
of fresh water, as the waters from the land, at this season, become
warmer than those from the sea. Mr. J. Couch, in the Linnaean
Transactions, says the little eels, according to his observation, are
produced within reach of the tide, and climb round falls to reach fresh
water from the sea. I have sometimes seen them in spring, swimming in
immense shoals in the Atlantic, in Mount Bay, making their way to the
mouths of small brooks and rivers. When the cold water from the autumnal
flood begins to swell the rivers, this fish tries to return to the sea;
but numbers of the smaller ones hide themselves during the winter in the
mud, and many of them form, as it were, masses together. Various authors
have recorded the migration of eels in a singular way; such as Dr. Plot,
who, in his History of Staffordshire, says they pass in the night across
meadows from one pond to another; and Mr. Arderon, in the Philosophical
Transactions, gives a distinct account of small eels rising up the
flood-gates and posts of the water-works of the city of Norwich; and
they made their way to the water above, though the boards were smooth
planed, and five or six feet perpendicular. He says, when they first
rose out of the water upon the dry board, they rested a little--which
seemed to be till their slime was thrown out, and sufficiently
glutinous--and then they rose up the perpendicular ascent with the same
facility as if they had been moving on a plane surface.--There can, I
think, be no doubt that they are assisted by their small scales, which,
placed like those of serpents, must facilitate their progressive motion;
these scales have been microscopically observed by Lewenhoeck. Eels
migrate from the salt water of different sizes, but I believe never when
they are above a foot long--and the great mass of them are only from two
and a half to four inches. They feed, grow, and fatten in fresh water.
In small rivers they seldom become very large; but in large, deep lakes
they become as thick as a man's arm, or even leg; and all those of a
considerable size attempt to return to the sea in October or November,
probably when they experience the cold of the first autumnal rains.
Those that are not of the largest size, as I said before, pass the
winter in the deepest parts of the mud of rivers and lakes, and do not
seem to eat much, and remain, I believe, almost torpid. Their increase
is not certainly known in any given time, but must depend upon the
quantity of their food; but it is probable they do not become of the
largest size from the smallest in one or even two seasons; but this, as
well as many other particulars, can only be ascertained by new
observations and experiments. Block states, that they grow slowly, and
mentions that some had been kept in the same pond for fifteen years. As
very large eels, after having migrated, never return to the river again,
they must (for it cannot be supposed that they all die immediately in
the sea) remain in salt water; and there is great probability that they
are then confounded with the conger, which is found from a few ounces to
one hundred pounds in weight.

       *       *       *       *       *


At Munich, every child found begging is taken to a charitable
establishment; the moment he enters his portrait is given to him,
representing him in his rags, and he promises by oath to keep it all his
life.

       *       *       *       *       *


INFANCY.


[This is _one_ of the gems of the quarto volume of poetry recently
published by the author of the "Omnipresence of the Deity;" but in our
next we intend stringing together a few of the resplendent beauties which
illumine almost every page.]


  On yonder mead, that like a windless lake
  Shines in the glow of heaven, a cherub boy
  Is bounding, playful as a breeze new-born,
  Light as the beam that dances by his side.
  Phantom of beauty! with his trepid locks
  Gleaming like water-wreaths,--a flower of life,
  To whom the fairy world is fresh, the sky
  A glory, and the earth one huge delight!
  Joy shaped his brow, and Pleasure rolls his eye,
  While Innocence, from out the budding lip
  Darts her young smiles along his rounded cheek.
  Grief hath not dimm'd the brightness of his form,
  Love and Affection o'er him spread their wings,
  And Nature, like a nurse, attends him with
  Her sweetest looks. The humming bee will bound
  From out the flower, nor sting his baby hand;
  The birds sing to him from the sunny tree;
  And suppliantly the fierce-eyed mastiff fawn
  Beneath his feet, to court the playful touch.

  To rise all rosy from the arms of sleep,
  And, like the sky-bird, hail the bright-cheek'd morn
  With gleeful song, then o'er the bladed mead
  To chase the blue-wing'd butterfly, or play
  With curly streams; or, led by watchful Love,
  To hear the chorus of the trooping waves,
  When the young breezes laugh them into life!
  Or listen to the mimic ocean roar
  Within the womb of spiry sea-shell wove,--
  From sight and sound to catch intense delight,
  And infant gladness from each happy face,--
  These are the guileless duties of the day:
  And when at length reposeful Evening comes,
  Joy-worn he nestles in the welcome couch,
  With kisses warm upon his cheek, to dream
  Of heaven, till morning wakes him to the world.

  The scene hath changed into a curtain'd room,
  Where mournful glimmers of the mellow sun
  Lie dreaming on the walls! Dim-eyed and sad,
  And dumb with agony, two parents bend
  O'er a pale image, in the coffin laid,--
  Their infant once, the laughing, leaping boy,
  The paragon and nursling of their souls!
  Death touch'd him, and the life-glow fled away,
  Swift as a gay hour's fancy; fresh and cold
  As winter's shadow, with his eye-lids seal'd,
  Like violet-lips at eve, he lies enrobed
  An offering to the grave! but, pure as when
  It wing'd from heaven, his spirit hath return'd,
  To lisp his hallelujahs with the choirs
  Of sinless babes, imparadised above.

_Death, a Poem, by R. Montgomery._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.


  What a fashionable place
    Soon the Regent's Park will grow!
  Not alone the human race
    To survey its beauties go;
  Birds and beasts of every hue,
    In order and sobriety,
  Come, invited by the Zo-
    Ological Society.

  Notes of invitation go
    To the west and to the east.
  Begging of the Hippopo-
    Tamus here to come and feast:
  Sheep and panthers here we view,
    Monstrous contrariety!
  All united by the Zo-
    Ological Society.

  Monkeys leave their native seat,
    Monkeys green and monkeys blue,
  Other monkeys here to meet,
    And kindly ask, "Pray how d'ye do?"
  From New Holland the emu,
    With his better moiety,
  Has paid a visit to the Zo-
    Ological Society.

  Here we see the lazy tor-
    Toise creeping with his shell,
  And the drowsy, drowsy dor-
    Mouse dreaming in his cell;
  Here from all parts of the U-
    Niverse we meet variety,
  Lodged and boarded by the Zo-
    Ological Society.

  Bears at pleasure lounge and roll,
    Leading lives devoid of pain,
  Half day climbing up a poll,
    Half day climbing down again;
  Their minds tormented by no su-
    Perfluous anxiety,
  While on good terms with the Zo-
    Ological Society.

  Would a mammoth could be found
    And made across the sea to swim!
  But now, alas! upon the ground
    The bones alone are left of him:
  I fear a hungry mammoth too,
    (So monstrous and unquiet he.)
  By hunger urged might eat the Zo-
    Ological Society!

_The Christmas Box._

       *       *       *       *       *


INSECTS.


One great protection against all creeping things is, to stir the ground
very frequently along the foot of the wall. That is their great place of
resort; and frequent stirring and making the ground very fine, disturbs
the peace of their numerous families, gives them trouble, makes them
uneasy, and finally harasses them to death.

_Cobbett's English Gardener._

       *       *       *       *       *


SIR W. TEMPLE'S GARDEN.


It was formerly the fashion to have a sort of canal, with broad grass
walks on the sides, and with the water coming up to within a few inches
of the closely shaven grass; and certainly few things were more beautiful
than these. Sir William Temple had one of his own constructing in his
gardens at Moor Park. On the outsides of the grass-walks were borders of
beautiful flowers. I have stood for hours to look at this canal, which
the good-natured manners of those days had led the proprietor to make an
opening in the outer wall in order that his neighbours might enjoy the
sight as well as himself; I have stood for hours, when a little boy,
looking at this object; I have travelled far since, and have seen a great
deal; but I have never seen any thing of the gardening kind so beautiful
in the whole course of my life--_Ibid_.

       *       *       *       *       *


BULBOUS ROOTS.


In glasses filled with water, bulbous roots, such as the hyacinth,
narcissus, and jonquil, are blown. The time to put them in is from
September to November, and the earliest ones will begin blowing about
Christmas. The glasses should be blue, as that colour best suits the
roots; put water enough in to cover the bulb one-third of the way up,
less rather than more; let the water be soft, change it once a week, and
put in a pinch of salt every time you change it. Keep the glasses in a
place moderately warm, and _near to the light_. A parlour window is a
very common place for them, but is often too warm, and brings on the
plants too early, and causes them to be weakly.--_Ibid_.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING INVALIDS.


We cannot refrain from stating our belief, and this on the authority of
intelligent physicians, as well as from personal observation, that much
mischief is done by committing invalids to long and precarious journeys,
for the sake of doubtful benefits. We have ourselves seen consumptive
patients hurried along, through all the discomforts of bad roads, bad
inns, and indifferent diet, to places, where certain partial advantages
of climate poorly compensated for the loss of the many benefits which
home and domestic care can best afford. We have seen such invalids lodged
in cold, half-furnished houses, and shivering under blasts of wind from
the Alps or Apennines, who might more happily have been sheltered in the
vales of Somerset or Devon. On this topic, however, we refrain from
saying more--further than to state our belief, that much misapprehension
generally prevails, as to the comparative healthiness of England, and
other parts of Europe. Certain phrases respecting climate have obtained
fashionable currency amongst us, which greatly mislead the judgment as to
facts. The accurate statistical tables, now extended to the greater part
of Europe, furnish more secure grounds of opinion; and from these we
derive the knowledge, that there is no one country in Europe where the
average proportion of mortality is so small as in England. Some few
details on this subject we subjoin,--tempted to do so by the common
errors prevailing in relation to it.

The proportion of deaths to the population is nearly one-third less in
England than in France. Comparing the two capitals, the average mortality
of London is about one-fifth less than that of Paris. What may appear a
more singular statement, the proportion of deaths in London, a vast and
luxurious metropolis, differs only by a small fraction from that of the
whole of France; and is considerably less than the average of those
Mediterranean shores which are especially frequented by invalids for the
sake of health. In Italy, the proportion of deaths is a full third
greater than in England; and even in Switzerland and Sweden, though the
difference be less, it is still in favour of our own country.--_Q. Rev_.

       *       *       *       *       *


NEWSPAPER LOVE.


The paper so highly esteemed, entitled, _The Courier de l'Europe_,
originated in the following circumstances:--

"Monsieur Guerrier de Berance was a native of Auvergne, whose fortune in
the origin was very low, but who by his intrigues succeeded in gaining
the place of Procureur General of the Custom-house. He married two wives;
the name of the last was Millochin, who was both young and handsome. She
soon began to find out that her husband was very disagreeable; and what
caused her more particularly to remark his faults was her contrasting him
with M. Cevres de la Tour, with whom she fell most desperately in love.
This passion became so violent, that Madame Guerrier fled into England
with her lover, who, in his turn, left his wife behind him in Paris. The
finances of these two lovers growing rather low, M. Sevres de la Tour,
who was a man of talent, thought, as a plan to enrich himself, to turn
editor to a newspaper, and for this purpose started the _Courier de
l'Europe_, which succeeded beyond his most sanguine hopes. Disgust, which
commonly follows these sort of unions, caused Madame Guerrier to be
deserted by her lover, and she was obliged to turn a teacher of languages
for her subsistence.--_The Album of Love_.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *


REPLY TO THE DIRGE ON MISS ELLEN GEE, OF KEW.

(_See Mirror, page 223_.)


  Forgive, ye beauteous maids of Q,
    The much relenting B,
  Who vows he never will sting U,
    While sipping of your T.

  One nymph I wounded in the I,
    The charming L N G,
  The fates impell'd, I know not Y,
    The luckless busy B.

  And oh recall the sentence U
    Pass'd on your humble B,
  Let me remain at happy Q,
    Send me not o'er the C.

  And I will mourn upon A U,
    The death of L N G,
  And all the charming maids of Q
    Will pity the poor B.

  I will hum soft her L E G,
    The reason some ask Y,
  Because the maiden could not C,
    By me she lost her I.

  To soothe ye damsels I'll S A,
    Far sooner would I B
  Myself in funeral R A,
    Than wound one fair at T.

F.H.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE BITER BIT.


In the reign of Charles II. a physician to the court was walking with the
king in the gallery of Windsor Castle, when they saw a man repairing a
clock fixed there. The physician knowing the king's relish for a joke,
accosted the man with, "My good friend, you are continually doctoring
that clock, and yet it never goes well. Now if I were to treat my
patients in such a way, I should lose all my credit. What can the reason
be that you mistake so egregiously?" The man dryly replied, "The reason
why you and I, Sir, are not upon a par is plain enough--the sun discovers
all my blunders, but the earth covers yours."

G.I.F.

       *       *       *       *       *


EPITAPH.


On a tablet in the outside wall of the old church, at Taunton, in
Somersetshire, is the following on "James Waters, late of London,
aged 49."

  Death traversing the western road,
    And asking where true merit lay,
  Made in this town a short abode,
    Then took this worthy man away.

W.R.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIFE.


  Grass of levity,
  Span in brevity,
  Flower's felicity,
  Fire of misery,
  Wind's stability
  Is mortality.

       *       *       *       *       *


NOTICE FROM THE PUBLISHER.

Purchasers of the MIRROR, who may wish to complete their volumes, are
informed that the whole of the numbers are now in print, and can be
procured by giving an order to any Bookseller or Newsvender.

Complete sets Vol I. to XI. in boards, price £3. 19_s_. 6_d_ half bound,
£3. 17_s_.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIMBIRD'S EDITION OF THE

_Following Novels are already Published:_

